# Enhanced Object Literals

You're going to learn about Object Oriented Programming from in this module.

Since Object Oriented Programming requires you to create a lot of objects and methods, it makes sense to learn about latest Javascript improvements to help you make object creation easier.

They are:

1. Property value shorthands
2. Method shorthands
3. The ability to use computed property names

(Collectively, they're called Enhanced Object Literals).

## Property value shorthands

Sometimes, you want to assign a variable to as a property to an object, and this variable has the same name as the object property.

```js
const fullName = 'Zell Liew'

const Zell = {
  fullName: fullName
}
```

With **property value shorthands**, if your variable and property name are the same, you'll be able to write only the property name, and Javascript will take care of the rest.

```js
const fullName = 'Zell Liew'

const Zell = {
  fullName
}

// Underneath the hood, Javascript does this:
const Zell = {
  fullName: fullName
}
```

## Method shorthands

If you wanted to write a method, you had to declare a function expression as a method, like this:

```js
const Zell = {
  sayMyName: function () {console.log("I'm Zell")}
}
```

With **method shorthands**, you no longer need to write the `:function` part. You can do it this way:

```js
const Zell = {
  sayMyName () {console.log("I'm Zell")}
}
```

## Computed object property names

Imagine you have a propertyName called `smile`, and you had to create another property called `bigger smile`.

```js
const smileTypes = {
  smile: '😄',
  'bigger smile': '😂'
}
```

(Note: Properties can be strings, but you need to uset the bracket notation to create/use them. They're rare, and you should only use them when necessary).

Now, let's say `smile` is dynamic property that's stored in a variable. You need to create the same `smile` and `bigger smile` properties.

To create `smileTypes`, you need to add `smile` and `bigger smile` into `smileTypes` through the bracket notation, one by one, like this:

```js
const dynamicProp = 'smile'
const smileTypes = {}

smileTypes[dynamicProp] = '😄'
smileTypes['bigger ' + dynamicProp] = '😂'
```

With **computed object property names**, you can use the variable directly in the object creation process and Javascript takes care of the rest.

```js
const newPropertyName = 'smile'

// ES6 way.
const anObject = {
  [newPropertyName]: '😄',
  ['bigger ' + newPropertyName]: '😂',
}

// Result
// {
//   smile: '😄',
//   'bigger smile': '😂'
// }
```

Pretty neat, huh? :)

## Wrapping up

Javascript provides three improvements to help you write objects easily. They are:

1. Property value shorthands
2. Method shorthands
3. The ability to use computed property names

## Exercise

1. Try creating a property with property value shorthands
2. Try creating a method with method shorthands
3. Try adding two dynamic variables into Javascript with computed property names