<!-- I don't know about this lesson too, because it seems like you no longer need vendor prefixes! Let's see when a need arises -->

# Writing Vendor Prefixes in JavaScript


## What are vendor prefixes

## Why do you need vendor prefixes

## How to add vendor prefixes with CSS?
## How to add vendor prefixes with JavaScript?

Vendor prefixes are one big headache in web development. Sometimes you need to `-webkit`, sometimes you need to `-moz` and `-ms` and even `-o`.

Remember those in the CSS? Well, I haven't done any of them it this lessons you're going through because we have a workflow that takes care of all the prefixing with CSS.

If you change styles with JavaScript, you need to do your own browser prefixes or things won't work. Because of this, it is recommended that you reduce changes changes in JavaScript as much as possible. If you really need to, use the vendor prefix plugin thing here.

Or use GSAP, because GSAP takes care of prefixingn for you. More on GSAP if you're animating. That's really useful. ANd what am I typing? I don't have the energy and I don't feel like typing already. I just want to nua and sleep.



```js
// https://davidwalsh.name/vendor-prefix
var prefix = (function () {
  var styles = window.getComputedStyle(document.documentElement, ''),
    pre = (Array.prototype.slice
      .call(styles)
      .join('')
      .match(/-(moz|webkit|ms)-/) || (styles.OLink === '' && ['', 'o'])
    )[1],
    dom = ('WebKit|Moz|MS|O').match(new RegExp('(' + pre + ')', 'i'))[1];
  return {
    dom: dom,
    lowercase: pre,
    css: '-' + pre + '-',
    js: pre[0].toUpperCase() + pre.substr(1)
  };
})();
```

## How to use it

Add the code to the top of your JavaScript file (if you need to manually add vendor prefixes). Then, when you change your style, make sure you change your prefix as well, so

```
ELement.style.transform = 'translateX(200px)'
```
Why aren't we talking about CSS Vendor prefixes? Oh, because they can be easily taken care of by Autoprefixer, a tool that adds vendor prefixes for you automatically.

(This is why when you use the starter template I've given you, you don't need vendor prefixes).

For more information read X. If you want to build up your workflow that makes coding waaay easier, consider reading grabbing Automating Your Workflow. You'll get ten chapters free :)