## Arrow functions

Arrow functions are pretty cool. They help you make code shorter, which gives less room for errors to hide. They also help you write code that's easier to understand once you get used to the syntax.

We'll be using a lot of arrow functions from now on, so let's learn to use them.

## The basic syntax of arrow functions

An arrow function is denoted by the fat arrow (`=>`). It is a new way to make anonymous functions in ES6.

Here's what it looks like:

```js
// Normal Function (with Function expression)
const normalFunction = function (arg1, arg2) {
  // Do something
}

// Arrow Function
const arrowFunction = (arg1, arg2) => {
  // Do something
}
```

See the similarity? Basically, you remove the `function` keyword from a normal function, then add a `=>` after the parenthesis to get an arrow function.

But that's not everything. The syntax of an arrow function can change depending two factors:

1. The **number of arguments** required
2. Whether you'd like an **implicit return**.

## The number of arguments

If you supply zero arguments to your arrow function, you can substitute the parenthesis with an underscore (`_`).

```js
const zeroArgs = () => {/* do something */}
const zeroWithUnderscore = _ => {/* do something */}
```

If you supply only one argument, you can remove the parenthesis.

```js
const oneArg = arg1 => {/* do something */}
const oneArgWithParenthesis = (arg1) => {/* do something */}
```

If you supply two or more arguments, you need to use the basic arrow function syntax.

```js
const twoOrMoreArgs = (arg1, arg2) => {/* do something */}
```

This flexibility in deciding whether to omit parenthesis and replacing parenthesis with underscores allow you to declare a function with lesser code compared to typing `function functionName () {}`.

## Whether you'd like an implicit return

Arrow functions automatically create a `return` statement if two conditions are present:

1. You write only one line of code in the function
2. That line of code is not enclosed in curly braces (`{}`)

This implicit return feature lets you reduce three lines of code into a single line, which makes your code even shorter.

```js
// 3 lines of code for with a normal function
const sumNormal = function (num1, num2) {
  return num1 + num2
}

// Can be replaced with one line of code with an arrow function
const sumArrow = (num1, num2) => num1 + num2
```

## this in arrow functions

`this` is a unique keyword whose value changes depending on how a function is called. Arrow functions sets `this` to a different value compared to normal functions. You'll learn more about this in a later lesson.

## Exercise

Arrow functions are important. You'll see more and more arrow functions when you google for code in future. We're also going to use a lot of them in this course, so make sure you're familiar with them.

For this lesson, do the following:

1. Make a function named `ten` that takes in zero arguments and return the value 10. Try using both `()` and `_` syntax.
2. Make a function named `logger` that takes in one argument. It logs the argument you passed into it. Try it with and without parenthesis `()`.
3. Make a function called `add` that adds two numbers together. Try it with and without implicit returns
4. Make a function called `multiply` that multiplies two numbers together. Try it with and without implicit returns
