# Introduction to Objects

Object is a type of data in JavaScript. It's the only value you can pass around as variables besides primitives. For this reason, objects are really important in JavaScript.

## What are objects

An object in JavaScript is a type of data that contains **key-value pairs**.

You can create objects by writing these key-value pairs within curly braces. If you intend to create multiple key-value pairs, you need to separate each pair with commas, like this:

```js
const anObject = {
  key1: 'value1',
  key2: 'value2',
  key3: 'value3'
  // ...
}
```

Each *key* gives you a reference to a *value*. If you imagine an English dictionary, the keys are the words while the values are the definition of each word.

```js
const dictionary = {
  dream: 'a series of thoughts, images, and sensations occurring in a person\'s mind during sleep',
  happy: 'feeling or showing pleasure or contentment',
  // ...
}
```

Since object stores key-value pairs, another analogy you can use is to compare objects in JavaScript with objects in real life.

For example, you can observe the device you're using to read this lesson. What device is this? What's its size? What's its operating system?

If you put these information together into a JavaScript object, it'd look like this:

```js
const macbook = {
  operatingSystem: 'macOS Sierra',
  screenResolution: '2880x1800',
  screenSize: '15.4 inch',
  usbPorts: 2,
  hdmiPort: 1,
  storage: '512gb'
  // ... Other specs
}
```

## Object values

Objects can contain any value that's valid in JavaScript. This means you can store primitives (like Strings and Numbers) and other objects.

```js
const anObject = {
  string: 'Yay',
  number: 1,
  boolean: true,
  nullPrimitive: null,
  undefinedPrimitive: undefined,
  anotherObject: {},
  afunction: function () {} // more on functions later
  anArray: [] // more on array in the next lesson
}
```

## Getting the value of a property

Keys are also called properties. You can use two methods to get the value of a property

The first method is through the **dot notation**, where you write the name of the object, followed by `.`, followed by the property name:

```js
const prop = object.property
```

So, if you'd like to get the `storage` of the macbook we declared above, you can write `macbook.storage`

```js
const macbookStorage = macbook.storage
console.log(macbookStorage) // 512gb
```

The second method is through the **bracket notation**. Here, you write the name of the object, followed by a string of the property in square brackets (`[]`).

```js
const macbookStorage = macbook['storage']
console.log(macbookStorage) // 512gb
```

Both methods work.

Normally, you'll use the dot notation. You'll only use the bracket notation in special occasions where the dot notation doesn't work.

These special occasions include:

1. When your property name is an invalid identifier.
2. When you need get the value of a property through a variable.

### Invalid identifiers

Remember the four constraints you had when you declare variables?

1. It must be one word
2. It must consist only of letters, numbers or underscores (0-9, a-z, A-Z, `_`).
3. It cannot begin with a number.
4. It cannot be any of these [reserved keywords](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#Keywords)

Anything that follows these four rules is a valid identifier. Anything that doesn't follow these rules is an invalid identifier.

Objects can have invalid identifiers as properties, like:

```js
const ObjWithInvalidIdentifer = {
  'First Name': 'Zell'
}
```

When you have an invalid identifier, you can't use the dot notation. You need to use the bracket notation:

```js
const firstName = ObjWithInvalidIdentifer.First Name // Syntax Error: Unexpected identifier
const firstName2 = ObjWithInvalidIdentifer['First Name'] // Zell
```

Of course, when you create objects, try to make properties with valid identifiers so you can use the dot notation.

### Getting the value of a property through a variable.

When you write more advanced code, you may need to get the value of a property through a variable. In this case, you can only use the bracket notation.

For example, let's say you store the property to search in a variable called `propertyToGet`.

```js
const propertyToGet = 'storage'
```

There's no property called `propertyToGet` in the object, so you can't use the dot notation. If you try doing it, you'll get `undefined`.

```js
const storageWithDotNotation = macbook.propertyToGet
console.log(storageWithDotNotation) // undefined
```

You can only use the bracket notation, like this:

```js
const macbookStorage = macbook[propertyToGet]
console.log(macbookStorage) // 512gb
```

That's all you need to know about getting property values. Let's move on and learn to set property values.

## Setting the value of a property

You can set the value of a property either with the dot notation or the bracket notation. Likewise, the dot notation is always preferred.

```js
// Dot notation
macbook.storage = '256gb'

// Bracket notation
macbook['usbPorts'] = 2

console.log(macbook)
// {
//   storage: '256gb',
//   usbPorts: 2
// }
```

## Deleting properties

You can delete key-value pairs from objects with the `delete` keyword. To do so, you write `delete`, followed by the property either in dot or bracket notation.

```js
delete object.property
```

Here's an example where we delete the `storage` property from the macbook Object.

```js
delete macbook.storage
console.log(macbook)
// The storage property is already deleted, hence you don't see it anymore when you console.log it
// {
//   usbPorts: 2
// }
```

## Functions are Objects in JavaScript

Functions are a special kind of Object in JavaScript. It can have properties too (even though you'd most likely won't declare any).

```js
// You can add properties to functions
function sayName () {}
sayName.property = 'Hallelujah'

console.log(sayName.property)
// Hallelujah
```

Since functions are objects, you can write functions as values in objects. The properties that contain functions as their values are called **methods**.

```js
const anObject = {
  aMethod: function() {
    // Do something in function
  }
}
```

In the following example, we say `playMusic` is a method of `macbook`.

```js
const macbook = {
  playMusic: function () {
    /* some code to play music */
  }
}
```

Since methods are functions, they behave exactly like functions.

To call a method, you write parenthesis `()` after getting the method through the dot or bracket notation

```js
// Calling a method with the dot notation
macbook.playMusic()

// Calling a method with the bracket notation
macbook['playMusic']()
```

You can also add arguments to methods, just like normal functions:

```js
const greeter = {
  sayHello: function (name) {
    console.log('Hello ' + name + '!')
  }
}

greeter.sayHello('Zell')
// Hello Zell!
```

Finally, you may hear phrases like *"higher order functions"* and *"functions are first class objects"* when you browse outside tutorials.

Ignore these phrases. They both mean functions are objects, which means you can pass functions around as a variable. People like to introduce important-sounding jargons to make functions sound more amazing (and confusing) than they really are.

## Object literal shorthands

ES6 gives you the ability to write objects in a shorter manner. Collectively, this improvement is called *"Object literal shorthands"*.

You can find more information about object literal shorthands in [another lesson]() (not done yet).

## Exercise

Practice making objects. You need to use them a lot when you code for real. Do the following:

1. Make an empty object
2. Make a property for your object with the dot notation. Give it a value
3. Make a property for your object with the bracket notation. Give it a value
4. Get the value of a property with the dot notation
5. Get the value of a property with the square bracket notation
6. Set the value of a property with the dot notation
7. Set the value of a property with the square bracket notation
8. Make a method. Call this method
9. Make a method that takes in an argument. Call this method

---

- Previous Lesson: [Scopes and Closures](09.scopes-and-closures.md)
- Next Lesson: [Arrays](11.arrays.md)