## &&, || and !

You learned that you can use `else if` statements to check for multiple conditions, like the traffic light example:

```js
// Note: Not actual JavaScript
if (light is red) {
  // Stop walking
} else if (cars around) {
  // Stop walking
} else {
  // Continue walking
}
```

Notice how you need to repeat the "stop walking" code in two of the above conditions?

To write better code, you can combine these two conditions if you had an OR keyword.

```js
// Note: Not actual JavaScript
if (light is red OR cars around) {
  // Stop walking
} else {
  // Continue walking
}
```

Much better, isn't it?

This OR keyword is a logical operator. JavaScript gives you three such logical operators to work with:

1. AND: `&&`
2. OR: `||`
3. NOT: `!`

## The AND operator `&&`

The AND operator `&&` is used to check if *all expressions that are truthy*. It looks like this:

```js
const test = expr1 && expr2 && expr3
```

`&&` has the following behavior:

- `&&` returns the *last expression* if ALL expressions are truthy
- `&&` returns the *first falsey expression* if ANY expressions are falsey

Here are some examples of `&&` at work:

```js
'two' && 0 // 0
0 && `two` // 0
'two' && 'three' // 'three'
```

You can use `&&` in a `if/else` condition, like this:

```js
// Buy apples only if stock is low and apples are juicy
if (juicyApples && stockLow) {
  // Buy apples
} else {
  // Don't buy apples
}
```

## The OR operator `||`

The OR operator `||` is used to check if *at least one expression is truthy*. It looks like this:

```js
const test = expr1 || expr2 || expr3
```

`||` has the following behavior:

- `||` returns the *first truthy expression* if ANY expressions are truthy
- `||` returns the *last expression* if ALL expressions are falsey

```js
'isTruthy' || 0 // 'isTruthy'
'' || 'isTruthy' // 'isTruthy'
'' || null // null
```

You can use `||` in a `if/else` condition, like this:

```js
// Don't cross the road if the lights are red, or if there are cars on the road
if (redLights || carsOnRoad) {
  // Don't cross road
} else {
  // Cross road
}
```

## The NOT operator `!`

The NOT operator `!` flips truthy and falsey values around. Truthy values becomes `false` while falsey values become `true`.

```js
!22 // false
!false // true
```

The NOT operator can be used to eliminate `else` statements, like this:

```js
const str = ''
if(!str) {
  // Only do something if string is NOT empty
}
```

## Double negation `!!`

If you tried reading other developers' code, you may sometimes see a two NOT operators placed together.

```js
!!someVariable
```

`!!` here is called a double negation. It converts truthy value to `true` and a falsey value to `false`.

It works this way: if the value is truthy, convert it to `false` with the first `!` NOT operator; then, convert `false` to `true` again with the second `!` NOT operator. (works the other way if the initial value is falsey).

Double negation is used to explicitly cast a truthy or falsey value into a boolean (`true` or `false`). You'll only use it to guard against developers who don't use strict equality when comparing expressions.

In short, you'll almost never use this, unless you're building a framework and you can't trust developers who may use your framework.

## Exercise

`&&`, `||` and `!` are often used in JavaScript to help write shorter and neater code. It can be confusing in the beginning, so take some time to familiarize yourself with these operators.

What value would you get for each of the following expressions?

1. `'Benjamin' && 'Thaddeus'`
2. `'Benjamin' || 'Thaddeus'`
3. `'' && null`
4. `'' || null`
5. `2550284 && 0`
6. `2550284 || 0`
7. `!2550284`
8. `!true`
9. `!NaN`
10. `!{}`

---

- Previous Lesson: [If-Else](12.if-else.md)
- Next Lesson: [Null & Undefined](14.null-and-undefined.md)