# Preventing Objects from mutating

You can prevent objects from mutating through two methods:

1. `Object.assign`
2. `assignment`

## Object.assign

`Object.assign` lets you combine two (or more) objects into a single one. It has the following syntax:

```js
const newObject = Object.assign(object1, object2, object3, object4)
```

`newObject` will contain properties from every object you pass into `Object.assign`.

```js
const papayaBlender = { canBlendPapaya: true }
const mangoBlender = { canBlendMango: true }

const fruitBlender = Object.assign(papayaBlender, mangoBlender)

console.log(fruitBlender)
// {
//   canBlendPapaya: true,
//   canBlendMango: true
// }
```

If two conflicting properties are found, the property in a later object overwrites the property in an earlier object.

```js
const smallCupWithEar = {
  volume: 300,
  hasEar: true
}

const largeCup = { volume: 500 }

// In this case, volume gets overwritten from 300 to 500
const myIdealCup = Object.assign(smallCupWithEar, largeCup)

console.log(myIdealCup)
// {
//   volume, 500,
//   hasEar: true
// }
```

**But beware! When you combine two objects with `Object.assign`, the first object gets mutated. Other objects don't get mutated.**

```js
console.log(smallCupWithEar)
// {
//   volume, 500,
//   hasEar: true
// }

console.log(largeCup)
// {
//   volume, 500
// }
```

### Preventing Object.assign from mutating objects

You can pass a new object as your first object to prevent existing objects from mutating. You'll still mutate the first object (which is empty), but that's OK since this mutation doesn't affect other objects—it won't change external state.

```js
const myIdealCup = Object.assign({}, smallCupWithEar, largeCup)
```

## But Object.assign copies references to nested objects

The problem with `Object.assign` is that it performs a **shallow merge**—it copies properties directly from one object to another. When it does so, it also copies references to any objects.

Let's explain this statement with an example.

Suppose you buy a new sound system. The system lets you change three settings:

1. Power (turned on or off)
2. Volume (through a number)
3. Loudness (through a number)

```js
const defaultSettings = {
  power: true,
  soundSettings: {
    volume: 50,
    bass: 20,
  }
}
```

You want to invite your friends to a party. You know some of them love loud music, so you create a preset that's guaranteed to wake your neighbors.

```js
const loudPreset = {
  soundSettings: {
    volume: 100
  }
}
```

When you invite your friends over to the party, you want to preserve your existing presets (so you can switch back quickly). You choose to combine `loudPreset` with the default settings.

```js
const partyPreset = Object.assign({}, defaultSettings, loudPreset)
```

But `partyPreset` sounds weird. The volume is loud enough, but the bass is non-existent. When you inspect `partyPreset`, you're surprised to find that there's no bass in it!

```js
console.log(partyPreset)
// {
//   power: true,
//   soundSettings: {
//     volume: 100
//   }
// }
```

This happens because JavaScript copies the reference to the `soundSettings` object. Since both `defaultSettings` and loudPreset have a `soundSettings` object, the one that comes later gets copied into the new object.

If you change `partyPreset`, `loudPreset` will mutate accordingly—evidence that `partyPreset` links to loud preset's `soundSettings` object.

```js
partyPreset.soundSettings.bass = 50

console.log(loudPreset)
// {
//   soundSettings: {
//     volume: 100,
//     bass: 50
//   }
// }
```

You need another method to ensure nested objects (objects in objects) don't get passed over to `partyPreset`. Enter assignment.

## Assignment

`assignment` is a [library](https://github.com/bevacqua/assignment/blob/master/assignment.js) made by [Nicolás Bevacqua](https://twitter.com/nzgb) from [Ponyfoo](https://ponyfoo.com), which is a great source for JavaScript knowledge. It helps you perform a deep merge without having to worry about mutation. Aside from the method name, the syntax is the same as `Object.assign`.

```js
// Perform a deep merge with assignment
const partyPreset = assignment({}, defaultSettings, loudPreset)

console.log(partyPreset)
// {
//   power: true,
//   soundSettings: {
//     volume: 100,
//     bass: 20
//   }
// }
//
```

`assignment` copies over values of all nested objects, which prevents your existing objects from getting mutated.

If you try to change any property in `partyPreset.soundSettings` now, you'll see that `loudPreset` remains as it was.


```js
partyPreset.soundSettings.bass = 50

// loudPreset doesn't get mutated
console.log(loudPreset)
// {
//   soundSettings {
//     volume: 100
//   }
// }
```

Note: `assignment` is just one of many libraries that help you perform a deep merge. Other libraries, including [lodash.mereg](https://lodash.com/docs#mereg) and [merge-options](https://www.npmjs.com/package/merge-options)), can help you do it too. Feel free to choose from any of these libraries.

## Should you always use assignment over Object.assign?

You can use `Object.assign` if you're not merging objects with nested objects. There's no harm in using it as long as you know what you're doing.

If you need to assign objects with nested properties, always use `assignment` over `Object.assign`.

## Wrapping up

`Object.assign` can be used to prevent objects from mutating.

Take note that `Object.assign` can only prevent direct properties from mutating. If you need to merge objects with nested properties, use `assignment` (or other libraries that do the same thing) instead of `Object.assign`.

## Exercise

1. Combine two objects with `Object.assign`.
2. Combine two objects with `assignment`.
