# Reduce side effects

When a function modifies the state of a program, it is said to introduce **side effects**. By that definition, all impure functions (functions that are not pure) introduce side effects.

```js
let num = 25
addAnotherTen()

// `addAnotherTen` introduced a side effect
console.log(num) // 35
```

## External variables don't always cause side effects

Consider the following piece code:

```js
const number = 33

function numTimes2 () {
  return number * 2
}
```

If number is always 33, `numTimes2` will always return 66. In this case, `numTimes2` can still be considered pure. Plus, it doesn't cause any side effects.

The only downside to writing the type of code above is that you'll never be sure whether the function is pure until you checked your application thoroughly.

## Side effects aren't always bad

Side effects may sound bad, but they're not always bad. Every program needs side effects to function. You've already written a few side effects without noticing.

Here are a few examples:

1. Changing the class of a HTML element
2. Changing the attribute of a HTML element
3. Changing the textContent of a HTML element
4. Adding or removing elements from the DOM

## Group side effects together

Bugs introduced by side effects can be hard to catch. This is because state changes are valid JavaScript changes; they produce no error messages.

You have already seen why when you went through [prevent mutation](02.prevent-mutations.md). If you mutate an object, another object elsewhere can change without you noticing, and this can cause your program to behave unexpectedly.

```js
const egg = { name: "Humpty Dumpty" };
const newEgg = egg;
newEgg.name = "Errr ... Not Humpty Dumpty";

console.log(egg);
// {
//   name: "Errr ... Not Humpty Dumpty"
// }
```

To give yourself an easier time, you should group side effects together.

