# Write pure functions

Pure functions are functions that have two characteristics:

1. They do not produce side effects
2. They will return the same output given a specific input

## No side effects

When a function changes the external state, it is said to produce side effects. Pure functions should not produce side effects.

## Returning the same output given a specific input

When you pass a set of input values into a pure function, it should always return the same output value. This is easier to explain with an example.

Let's say you have a function called `sum` that sums two numbers together.

```js
const sum = (n1, n2) => n1 + n2
```

If you pass 3 and 5 into `sum`, you will get 8. It doesn't matter how many times you run `sum(3, 5)`. You will always get 8. The output remains unchanged given the same input.

```js
sum(3, 5) // 8
sum(3, 5) // 8
sum(3, 5) // 8
sum(3, 5) // 8
```

An impure function's value can change given the same input. Let's say for example you have the following function that uses `Math.random`.

```js
const random = _ => Math.random()
```

`Math.random` is a built-in JavaScript method that gives you a random value between 0 to 1. It changes each time you run it.

```js
random() // 0.4656
random() // 0.0037
random() // 0.4346
random() // 0.4989
```

## No external variables

Pure functions cannot depend on variables in the external state. This is because the output value will be different if the external state changes.

```js
let num = 5
const addValue = valueToAdd => num + valueToAdd

addValue(10)  // 15
num = 100
addValue(10) // 110
```

## Semi-pure functions

You can still write functions that relies on external variables if you know they won't change.

```js
const num = 5
const addValue = valueToAdd => num + valueToAdd

addValue(10)  // 15
addValue(30)  // 35
addValue(10)  // 15
```

Practice this with discretion.
