# Reduce reassignments

If you need to create a variable that can be changed to something else, you an use the `let` keyword.

```js
let toy = 'I need to change into something else later!'
```

This variable is often changed later in a control flow (a control flow tells code how to behave given a certain condition. Examples of control flows include `if/else` statements and `for` loops) with a reassignment.

```js
if (newborn.gender === 'girl') {
  toy = 'doll'
} else {
  toy = 'car'
}
```

But there are two problems with reassignments:

1. You may accidentally reassign a value into the external state
2. Code that reassigns consume more brainpower than code that don't reassign.

## Accidentally reassigning a value into the external state

When you reassign variables, you use this syntax:

```js
variable = 'new value'
```

It doesn't matter whether you reassign a locally scoped variable or a variable from the outside scope. Both work the same way.

```js
let outside = `I'm outside`

function aTypicalFunction() {
  let inside = 'before reassigning'

  // Reassignment in progress
  outside = `I have been reassigned`
  inside = `I have been reassigned too`
}

aTypicalFunction()
```

If you reassign an external variable, you change the state of the program. We already discussed why you should not change the state of programs earlier in [pure functions](07.pure-functions.md).

```js
aTypicalFunction()
console.log(outside) // I have been reassigned
```

Better to avoid reassignments whenever you can, unless you need them.

## Code that reassigns consume more brainpower

When you use `let` to create a variable, you tell your brain "hey, this variable is going to change, so keep track of it".

Then, when you change your variable in a control flow, you brain needs to update the variable in your head. This process gets harder if you change your variables multiple times in different control flows.

```js
let toy = ''

if (newborn.gender === 'girl') {
  toy = 'doll'
} else {
  toy = 'car'
}

giveToy(toy)
```

Compare the code above with what I'm going to show you next. Which one feels easier to read?

```js
const toy = newborn === 'girl' ? 'doll' : 'car'
giveToy(toy)
```

The second one, isn't it? You no longer have to worry about `toy` changing values when you use `const`; you'll automatically allocated brainpower to something else.

Now, let's talk about the weird `?` and `:` syntax. It's called a ternary operator.

## Ternary operators

Ternary operators let you create `if/else` statement in an easy-to-read manner. It has the following syntax:

```js
condition ? truthyExp : falseyExp
```

- The `condition` refers to the same condition in an `if/else` statement
- `truthyExp` refers to the statement to execute if the condition is truthy
- `falseyExp` refers to the statement to execute if the condition is falsey

To convert `if/else` statements into ternary operators, you place the condition before the `?`, the truthy expression after the `?`, and the falsey expression after the `:`.

### Use ternary operators if...

Use ternary operators if only need a single line of code in your `if/else`. Don't use it if you need more than one line of code.

### Don't go overboard with ternary

If you want to create nested `if/else` statements with ternary operators, make sure you don't nest more than one layer, or your code may become hard to read.

```js
const toy = newborn.gender === 'girl'
  ? newborn.birthMonth === 'December'
    ? 'candy cane'
    : 'doll'
  : newborn.birthMonth === 'December'
    ? 'santa hat'
    : 'car'
```

## Early returns

Ternary operators only work with `if/else` statements. But what if you need an `else if`? That's when early returns come in.

Let's say you want to give a newborn a toy depending on their month of birth. If they're born in January, you'll give them a candy cane; if they're born in February, you'll give them a pair of socks; if they're born in March, you'll send some mittens over. Finally, if they're not born in any of these months, you'll send a pair of mittens.

```js
let toy = ''
if (newborn.birthMonth === 'January') {
  toy = 'candy cane'
} else if (newborn.birthMonth === 'February') {
  toy = 'socks'
} else if (newborn.birthMonth === 'March') {
  toy = 'hat'
} else {
  toy = 'mittens'
}
```

To prevent yourself from reassigning a `toy` variable, you can create a function, `getToy`, that determines the toy you'll give the newborn.

```js
const toy = getToy('January')
```

Within `getToy`, you can use `if` statement to establish control flows. If the newborn is born in January, you return `candy cane`; if the newborn is born in February, you return `socks` and so on.

```js
const getToy = month => {
  if (newborn.birthMonth === 'January') {
    return 'candy cane'
  }
  if (newborn.birthMonth === 'February') {
    return 'socks'
  }
  if (newborn.birthMonth === 'March') {
    return 'hat'
  }
  return 'mittens'
}
```

If the newborn's birth month is February, `getToy` ignores the `January` branch because the conditions do not match; then, it executes the February branch since the conditions match. While executing the February branch, `getToy` hits a `return` statement, so it wouldn't execute any subsequent code.

If you only need a single line of code after the `if` statement, you can collapse the curly brackets; JavaScript will assume the next line of code (meaning the `return` statement) is part of the `if` condition. Any subsequent lines of code will be treated as if they're outside the `if` statement.

```js
const getToy = month => {
  // The return is in the `if` condition. This return statement is written on a second line for clarity.
  if (newborn.birthMonth === 'January')
    return 'candy cane'

  // This line of code is outside the `January` if statement
  if (newborn.birthMonth === 'February') return 'socks'

  // This condition is outside the `February` if statement
  if (newborn.birthMonth === 'March') return 'hat'

  // This line of code is outside the `March` if statement
  return 'mittens'
}
```

The finished code for `getToy`, without comments, is concise and easy to read:

```js
const getToy = month => {
  if (newborn.birthMonth === 'January') return 'candy cane'
  if (newborn.birthMonth === 'February') return 'socks'
  if (newborn.birthMonth === 'March') return 'hat'
  return 'mittens'
}

const toy = getToy('January')
console.log(toy) // candy cane
```

## Use const over let

Train yourself to avoid reassignments. Use `const` over `let` to declare variables as much as you can. Whenever you see a variable with `let`, refactor your code so it uses `const`.

## Exercise

Go through the exercises you've done in previous lessons. On what occasions did you use `let` and reassignments? Refactor these occasions to use `const`.