# 🛠 Refactoring the off-canvas menu

When you refactor, you want to tidy up your code—change the code structure—without affecting what it does. Refactoring can be a tedious process if your code isn't a trivial few lines. We'll look at a semi-tedious process when you refactor the carousel in a later lesson.

For now, let's learn how to begin to refactor a simple component—the off-canvas menu.

## The best practices

We learned five best practices in this module. They are:

1. Write declarative code
2. Functions should have one purpose
3. Avoid global variables
4. Reduce state changes
5. Write pure functions

Let's apply these principles to the off-canvas menu.

## Refactoring with the best practices

The off-canvas code we have is simple. Here it is:

```js
const offsiteToggle = document.querySelector('.jsOffsiteToggle')

offsiteToggle.addEventListener('click', _ => {
  document.body.classList.toggle('offsite-is-open')
})
```

Read this code. Can you see how you can use the practices mentioned above? We can use three of them. They are:

1. Write declarative code
2. Functions should have one purpose
3. Avoid global variables

### Write declarative code

Take a look at the event listener. Notice that, we tell the event listener what to do with the arrow function callback. This method of writing is imperative because we told it what to do.

We can make it declarative by extracting the callback into a separate function.

```js
const toggleOffCanvas = _ => {
  document.body.classList.toggle('offsite-is-open')
}

const offsiteToggle = document.querySelector('.jsOffsiteToggle')
offsiteToggle.addEventListener('click', toggleOffCanvas)
```

Read the second block of code. Compare it to the first block. Can you see how much brainpower when we named callback to the event listener?

At the same time, notice how we applied the second practice (functions should have one purpose) when we extracted the callback. We also named the function with a verb that's easy to understand, which makes the event listener declarative.

### Avoid global variables

We exposed a two global variables—`offsiteToggle` and `toggleOffCanvas`—in this component. We don't want to expose these variables because there may be a chance of a variable-name collision if we put components together in future.

To avoid name collisions, we avoid global variables. We can do so by wrapping the entire component in a block.

```js
{
  const toggleOffCanvas = _ => {
    document.body.classList.toggle('offsite-is-open')
  }

  const offsiteToggle = document.querySelector('.jsOffsiteToggle')
  offsiteToggle.addEventListener('click', toggleOffCanvas)
}
```

And we're done refactoring the off-canvas menu.