# Write pure functions

Note: **functions that introduce state changes are said to introduce side effects** (protip for programming interviews 😃).

Note to self: Put this with reduce side effects

Every program has a state. It is the condition of your program at a specific time.

When you create a variable called `myName`, you add `myName` into the state—JavaScript now remembers `myName`, and you can use it where its scoped to.

```js
const myName = 'Zell'
console.log(myName) // Zell
```

Note: programs contains state even if you don't write JavaScript—the current condition of the DOM, the `window` object, and other variables that exist automatically gives a program a default state.

## External State vs internal state

When we talk about external state, we're referring to the state outside of function. In the following example, external state contains a `name` variable that has the value `Zell`.

```js
const name = 'Zell'
const addTen = num => num + 10
```

When we talk about internal state, we're referring to the state inside function. Whenever you create variables, you create internal state.

In the following example, `num` can be logged into the console because its has state; it can store a value, and JavaScript remembers the value.

```js
const addTen = (num) => {
  console.log(num)
  return num + 10
}
```

When you exit a function, internal state is discarded. There's no way to get the internal state anymore (except through a closure).

## Pure functions

A **pure function** has two characteristics:

1. It will return the same output for a given input.
2. It does not change external state.

### It returns the same output for any given input

If you want to get the same output for any given input, you need to make sure your program only use input that is declared by the function.

For example, let's say you have two functions, `addTen` and `addAnotherTen`.

```js
function addTen (num) {
  return num + 10
}
```

```js
function addAnotherTen () {
  num = num + 10
}
```

If you pass 20 to `addTen`, `addTen` will always return 30, no matter how many times you call it.

On the other hand, the results from `addAnotherTen` depends on the program's state. It may change.

```js
// addTen's results remain consistent for a given input
console.log(addTen(20)) // 30
console.log(addTen(20)) // 30
console.log(addTen(20)) // 30
console.log(addTen(20)) // 30
console.log(addTen(20)) // 30
```

```js
// addAnotherTen's results changes because it uses external state
let num = 25
addAnotherTen() // num === 35
addAnotherTen() // num === 45
addAnotherTen() // num === 55
addAnotherTen() // num === 65
```

### It doesn't change external state

**Pure functions** doesn't change external state—the original input remains unchanged when you run a pure function.

```js
const num = 20
const result = addTen(20)

console.log(num) // 20
console.log(result) // 30
```

## What causes state changes

State changes can be caused by three things:

1. Assignments
2. Mutations
3. Callbacks that assign or mutate

### Assignments can change state

If you assign a external variable within a function, you change the state of a program.

```js
let num = 25
const addAnotherTen = () => { num = num + 10 }
addAnotherTen()

console.log(num) // 35
```

### Mutations can change state

If you mutate an object, the object changes. This is true even if you mutate an object in a function.

```js
const object = {}
const mutate = (obj) => {obj.isMutated = true}
mutate(object)

console.log(obj)
// {
//   isMutated: true
// }
```

### Callbacks can change state

A callback can change state if it assigns a value to an externally defined variable, or if it mutates an object.

## Exercise

Answer these questions:

1. What is state?
2. What is a pure function?

Are the following functions pure? Why?

```js
// Function 1
function setTextContent (element, text) {
  element.textContent = text
}

// Function 2
function multiply (n1, n2) {
  return n1 * n2
}

// Function 3
function catch22 (callback) {
  const value = 22
  callback(22)
}

// Function 4
function createTextString () {
  return `<li>${item}<li>`
}
```
