# 🛠 Refactoring the off-canvas menu

When you refactor, you want to tidy up your code without affecting what it does.

Refactoring can be a tedious process. It is also challenging if you're refactoring for the first time. Don't worry about getting things 100% right for now. Follow along and absorb as much as you can.

Make sure you redo each lesson at least two times so you understand how to look for code you can refactor.

## The best practices

We can group the lessons you learned in this module into five lessons. They are:

1. Write declarative code
2. Write functions with a single purpose
3. Manage scope
4. Reduce state changes
5. Write pure functions

Let's apply these principles to the off-canvas menu.

## Refactoring with the best practices

The off-canvas code we have is simple. Here it is:

```js
const offsiteToggle = document.querySelector('.jsOffsiteToggle')

offsiteToggle.addEventListener('click', _ => {
  document.body.classList.toggle('offsite-is-open')
})
```

We can apply two practices to these few lines of code. They are:

1. Write declarative code
2. Write functions with a single purpose

### Write declarative code

The code in the event listener is imperative. We tell the event listener to toggle the `offsite-is-open` class in the `body` element.

When we write declarative code, we don't care what the code does. We want to code to work. We can replace `document.body.classList.toggle('offsite-is-open')` with a function that does the same thing.

But we can call this function something much simpler, like `toggleOffCanvas`.

```js
const toggleOffCanvas = _ => {
  document.body.classList.toggle('offsite-is-open')
}
```

We can use `toggleOffCanvas` directly in the event listener.

```js
offsiteToggle.addEventListener('click', _ => toggleOffCanvas())
```

Since `toggleOffCanvas` doesn't need any variables, we can pass it directly as the callback to the event listener.

```js
offsiteToggle.addEventListener('click', toggleOffCanvas)
```

Now, look at the code required for the event listener again. It has become much easier to understand compared to before. We don't worry about what happens. All we know is it toggles the off canvas menu. The actual code is left to the `toggleOffCanvas` function.

### Write functions with a single purpose

`toggleOffCanvas` is a function that has a single purpose. It decides whether to add or remove `.offsite-is-open` to the `body` element.
