# Write declarative code

There are two kinds of code—imperative code and declarative code.

## Imperative code

**Imperative code tells the program how it should run.**

For example, if you have a line of code that says `1 + 1`, you've written an imperative program. You told the code to add 1 to 1.

A more realistic example of an imperative program is a `for` loop.

```js
const fruitsBasket = ['apple', 'banana', 'pear', 'apple']
const apples = []

for (let fruit of fruitsBasket) {
  if (fruit === 'apple') {
    apples.concat(fruit)
  }
}

console.log(apples) // [apple, apple]
```

In this loop, what you're saying is:

1. Go through every `fruit` in the `fruitsBasket`
2. If the `fruit` is an apple, add it to `apples` array.
3. If the `fruit` is not an apple, ignore it.

Here, you'll telling the program exactly what to do –  You're saying the code needs to loop over the basket and add any apples into the `apples` array.

## Declarative code

Declarative code tells a program what should be ran, but leave the implementation details to another function.

Using the same apples example as above, the declarative program may look like this:

```js
const fruitsBasket = ['apple', 'banana', 'pear', 'apple']
const apples = getApples(fruitsBasket)
```

Here, you don't care what happens in `getApples`, except it should return an array of apples. You leave the implementation details to the `getApples` function.

What would the `getApples` function be? It could be an imperative program, like this:

```js
const getApples = fruitsAvailableForPurchase => {
  const boughtItems = []
  for (let fruit of fruitsAvailableForPurchase) {
    if (fruit === 'apple') {
      boughtItems.concat(fruit)
    }
  }
  return boughtItems
}
```

Or it could be declarative code with the `filter` method provided by arrays.

Note: you'll always have at least one line of imperative code in the program. You can't run away from it entirely.

```js
const getApples = fruitsAvailable => {
  // This line is declarative. You called a filter function, but you don't really care how it filters.
  return fruitsAvailable.filter(fruit => {
    // This line is imperative. You're saying it should only be filtered if the fruit matches the string 'apple'
    return fruit === 'apple'
  })
}
```

## Imperative or Declarative?

Which is better, imperative or declarative code?

To answer this question, imagine you're a manager. You have two employees working for you.

The first employee is a robot (no brains), it performs tasks perfectly, but it needs step by step instructions. To get it to bring you coffee, you have to say "walk ten steps into the kitchen, take a cup, put the cup on the coffee machine, press the coffee button, take the cup, walk ten steps back to me and give me the cup".

The second employee is a human (with brains). He's able to perform the task well when you say "bring me some coffee, no sugar".

Which would you prefer?

## Wrapping up

It doesn't really matter whether your program follows at imperative paradigm or a declarative paradigm. What's important is it gets work done.

It's not worth fretting over writing purely imperative code vs purely declarative code because you'll have at least one line of imperative code in your program anyway.

It's best you learn to write slightly more declarative code by grouping tasks into smaller functions. They make your program easier to understand.
