# 🛠 Refactoring the modal

We can apply three best practice to refactor the modal component. They are:

1. Write declarative code
2. Write functions with a single purpose
3. Manage scopes

## Write declarative code

Inspect the modal code for anything that looks like imperative code. If you've done the previous lesson, you should identify two lines of code:

```js
// To open modal
document.body.classList.add('modal-is-open')

// To close modal
document.body.classList.remove('modal-is-open')
```

### Opening modal

`document.body.classList.add('modal-is-open')` is the implementation used to open the modal. We can convert this into declarative code by wrapping the implementation with a function that's easier to read and understand.

```js
const openModal = _ => {
  document.body.classList.add('modal-is-open')
}
```

We can use `openModal` by replacing `document.body.classList.add('modal-is-open')` with `openModal()`.

```js
toggleButton.addEventListener('click', _ => {
  openModal()
  wave()
})
```

This make our code easier to understand. We can immediately tell that the `toggleButton` event listener opens the modal and waves at the user.

### closing modal

`document.body.classList.remove('modal-is-open')` is the implementation used to close the modal. We can make this line easier to read by wrapping it in a function.

```js
const closeModal = _ => {
  document.body.classList.remove('modal-is-open')
}
```

```js
closeButton.addEventListener('click', _ => {
  closeModal()
})

container.addEventListener('click', e => {
  if (!e.target.closest('.modal')) {
    closeModal()
  }
})
```

Since `closeModal` doesn't need any variables to be passed into it, you can pass the function directly as a callback to `closeButton`'s event listener.

```js
closeButton.addEventListener('click', closeModal)
```

## Writing functions with a single purpose

Both `openModal` and `closeModal` are functions with a single purpose. They do one thing and one thing only.

## Managing scopes

Functions can be hard to debug if they use a variable that's external. For this reason, we should make sure every variable used in a function is clearly defined.

This is not the case right now for the `wave` function. We used the `hand` variable in `wave`, but `hand` is declared outside of `wave`.

Since `hand` is only used in `wave`, we declare `hand` within `wave` instead.

```js
const wave = _ => {
  const hand = document.querySelector('.wave-hand')
  // ...
}
```

### Ordering functions and variables

Functions should be declared before they're used. You should move all function declarations to the start of the file.

```js
const wave = _ => { /* ... */ }
const openModal = _ => { /* ... */ }
const closeModal = _ => { /* ... */ }

const toggleButton = document.querySelector('.jsModalToggle')
const closeButton = document.querySelector('.jsModalClose')
const container = document.querySelector('.modal-container')

toggleButton.addEventListener(...)
closeButton.addEventListener(...)
container.addEventListener(...)
```

