# CSS Animations

The second way to animate your components is through CSS Animations. CSS Animations are like CSS Transitions, except they're way more powerful.

You create a CSS Animation by defining an animation in `@keyframes`.

```css
@keyframes animation-name {
  0% {
    margin-left: 0px;
  },

  50% {
    margin-right: 400px;
  },

  100% {
    margin-left: 0px;
  }
}
```

In the keyframes above, the `0%`, `50%` and `100%` values are points on an animation timeline. It means the following:

1. Begin the animation (0%) with `margin-left` set to 0px.
2. Animate `margin-left` to 400px as the animation continues to the the middle of the animation duration (50%)
3. Animate `margin-left` to 0px as the animation continues to the end (100%)

You can add any number of points on the `@keyframes` declaration. Each point you add should be a percentage value. (You can also substitute `from` for 0% and `to` for 100%).

```css
@keyframes animation-name {
  0% {
    margin-left: 0px;
  },

  25% {
    margin-right: 200px;
  }

  50%, {
    margin-right: 400px;
  }

  75% {
    margin-right: 200px;
  }

  100% {
    margin-left: 0px;
  }
}
```

If your `@keyframes` points contain similar properties (like in the above case), you can stack the points together to compact the `@keyframes` declaration.

```css
@keyframes animation-name {
  from, to {
    margin-left: 0px;
  }

  25%, 75% {
    margin-right: 200px;
  }

  50% {
    margin-right: 400px;
  }
}
```

## Using the animation

You can use the animation with the `animation` property. Like `transition`, `animation` is a short hand for a handful of `animation-` properties (8 in total).

```css
.component {
  animation-name: name;
  animation-duration: duration;
  animation-timing-function: timing-function;
  animation-delay: duration;
  animation-iteration-count: count;
  animation-direction: direction;
  animation-fill-mode: fill-mode;
  animation-play-state: play-state;

  /* OR */
  animation: name
             duration
             timing-function
             delay
             iteration-count
             direction
             fill-mode
             play-state;
}
```

`animation-name` is the name of the animation you created with the `@keyframes` syntax. You can include more than one animation by separating them with commas.

`animation-duration` is the duration of the animation. It is written in seconds with the `s` suffix, like `3s`. It is also a required value.

`animation-timing-function` is the timing-function used for the animation. It has the same syntax as a `transition-timing-function`. If left out, it defaults to `ease`.

`animation-delay` is the delay before starting the animation. It creates a delay for every iteration of the animation and is written in seconds with the `s` suffix, like `3s`. If left out, it defaults to 0s.

`animation-iteration-count` tells CSS how many times you want the animation to occur. It takes in a number value. If you want the animation to loop infinitely (until you say stop), use `infinite`. If left out, it defaults to 1.

`animation-direction` is the direction of the animation. More on `animation-direction` below.

`animation-fill-mode` tells CSS what to do when the animation ends. More on `animation-fill-mode` below.

`animation-play-state` determines the state of the animation. It can either be `running` (which means the animation is playing) or `paused`. If left out, it defaults to `running`.

## Animation-direction

`animation-direction` tells CSS to play the animation from 0% to 100% or vice versa.

If the `animation-direction` is set to `normal`, the animation plays from 0% to 100%.

If the `animation-direction` is set to `reverse`, the animation plays from 100% to 0%.

If the `animation-direction` is set to `alternate`, the animation plays from 0% to 100% first, then plays from 100% to 0%, and from 0% to 100% again, until the `animating-iteration-count` runs out.

If the `animation-direction` is set to `alternate-reverse`, the animation plays from 100% to 0% first, then plays from 0% to 100%, and from 100% to 0% again, until the `animating-iteration-count` runs out.

See this codepen for a demo: https://codepen.io/zellwk/pen/eGxBWP?editors=1100.

## Animation-fill-mode

`animation-fill-mode` tells CSS how to style the animated element when the animation ends. It can take four possible values: `none`, `forwards`, `backwards` and `both`.

(If the `animation-iteration-count` is infinite, this property does nothing).

`animation-fill-mode: none;` tells CSS to style the animated element CSS rules that apply to it. Nothing from the `@keyframes` declaration should affect the animation when it ends.

`animation-fill-mode: forwards;` tells CSS to style the animated element such that it contains styles from the last `@keyframes` it encountered. If the animation goes in the normal direction, CSS will style the element with properties from the `100%` step. If the animation goes in the reverse direction, CSS styles the element with properties from the `0%` step.

`animation-fill-mode: backwards;` tells CSS to style the animated element according to where it originated. In practice, this looks exactly the same as `none`. I don't see a good use case for it.

`animation-fill-mode: both;` tells CSS to apply properties in both the `forwards` and `backwards` direction. In practice, this works exactly like `forwards` most of the time. I don't see a good use case for it too.

Of the four different fill-modes, the one you'll most likely use is `forwards`.

See this codepen for a demo of these animation-fill-modes: https://codepen.io/zellwk/pen/bozBRr

## Animating two or more properties.

You can animate two or more properties from the same element by separating the `animation-name` property with commas, just like how you'd do it with `transition-property`.

```css
.selector {
  animation-name: slideIn, fadeIn;
  animation-duration: 2s;
}
```

The syntax is exactly the same as transitioning multiple properties, so I'm confident you know how to take it from here :)

## Vary your @keyframes points

Setting `@keyframes` point values to standard, divisible values like 0%, 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% can make your animation dull and boring – because its predictable.

You can vary your @keyframe point values so your animation becomes a bit more life-like, like the heartbeat example here:

```css
@keyframes heartbeat {
  0% { transform: scale(1); }
  35% { transform: scale(1.3); }
  50% { transform: scale(1); }
  65% { transform: scale(1.2); }
  80% { transform: scale(1); }
}
```

See this pen for a demo of the heartbeat: https://codepen.io/zellwk/pen/wrNoXP

## Points and timing

It's hard to time your CSS animation with other elements on the page at the same time.

For example, let's say you decide the animation should last for 3 seconds.

You go ahead and calculate your points. In 3 seconds, if you want an animation to take 1 second, you need to divide 100% by 3. That means 33.333%.

Later, you decide to change the animation to 2 seconds. Now you're screwed. You need to redo your entire `@keyframes` sequence because 33.333% now means 0.67 seconds instead.

😡.

I have to confess here, this is why I don't use CSS animations much. Whenever I have a complicated animation I want to create, I'll use JavaScript instead. Animating with JavaScript is much easier once you get used to the syntax (and you when you're not afraid of it anymore).

## Playing/pausing your animation with CSS or JavaScript

CSS animations play immediately when the page loads. If you want to play/pause your CSS animation on an event, you need to change the `animation-play-state`.

```css
.heart {
  animation-play-state: running;
}

.heart:hover {
  animation-play-state: paused;
}
```

See this pen for a demo: https://codepen.io/zellwk/pen/WZPRva.

IMPORTANT! Always pause your CSS animations when you don't need them! This stops the animations from moving, which saves precious computing power that can be used for other things.

## When to use CSS Animations

Now, this is the big question. You've learned so much about CSS animations. When should you use it?

Although CSS animations are useful, I recommend it only one or more if the following scenarios are met.

1. You need a complex animation that CSS Transitions cannot provide you with (like the heartbeat animation for example)
2. You need to transition more than 2 properties for a single element.
3. The animation is relatively simple. It should not be more than 4 steps. Any more, you're in for a headache.
4. You want to trigger the animation when the screen loads (without listening for any JavaScript event).

If the animation becomes complicated enough to exceed 4 steps, I recommend you animate your component with JavaScript. It's far easier to calculate and synchronize timings with JavaScript.

## Exercise

1. Create a `@keyframes` declaration and use the animation.
2. Experiment with `animation-direction`. Try all four values and see how your `animation-timing-function` affects it.
3. Pause and play your animation with CSS and JavaScript.
4. Play around with `animation-fill-mode` and see if you can find a use for `none`, `backwards` and `both`. Let me know if you do. Otherwise, learn the `forwards` mode :)
5. Try and create a more life-like heartbeat animation!
