# Jank free animations

It is expensive to transition or animate most CSS properties. When you change enough of them (or if you use a lower-performance computer), you introduce jerky animations.

This jerky animation is called **jank**.

Want to see jank? Watch in horror as you hover over the button in [this codepen](https://codepen.io/zellwk/pen/eGxgdO). You'll see jank in its full glory.

Ugh, ugly. No no. You don't want that.

## When do you get jank?

Jank happens when you make the browser do so much work that it cannot update the screen in time.

Typically, devices refresh their screens 60 times a second. That means the browser needs to update the screen **60 times in one second** to get a jank-free animation.

The rate at which the browser refreshes the screen is called frames per second (fps). So, in other words, the browser needs to maintain **~60fps** for a silky smooth animation.

This means the browser needs to update every **16.67 milliseconds** (1/60*1000).

**60fps** and **16.67ms** are the two magic numbers you need to remember when creating animations. If you get a frame rate lower than 60fps, jank happens. If the browser refreshes slower than 16.67ms, jank happens.

But how do you make sure jank doesn't happen?

## Preventing Jank

You prevent jank by ensuring browsers do the minimum amount of work when animating.

To do so, you try to change only four things for all your animations:

1. Translate (from the transform property)
2. Rotate (from the transform property)
3. Scale (from the transform property)
4. Opacity

Why you can only change these four things to create silky smooth animations is out of scope for this course. For more information you can read [high performance animations](https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/speed/high-performance-animations/). If you're a geek, read it. It helps you understand why.

