# Animating with JavaScript

(This chapter is still in draft mode. Stop reading! 😄)

## When to animate with JavaScript

When transitions aren't enough.
When you use JavaScript.
When an event occurs.

Most animation-related stuff requires JavaScript anyway.

## But shouldn't you be accessible?

How many animations in the world do not require user interaction? Most user interaction only happens when JavaScript is present. Animation is

Progressive enhancement means to provide a baseline experience and ehance it for those who can. Most animations are an enhancement.

(More on progressive enhancement in a later module).

## Ways to animate with JavaScript

- Libraries
- Native way: Animation API. But this it's still a long way from being production ready.
- GSAP
- jQuery.animate (😱 don't use this)
- Velocity.js

Of the three, I highly highly encourage GSAP. They're super performant and even work all the way back to IE6!

Many animation experts, including Sarah Drasner and Chris Gannon rely on GSAP, so you're well covered if your boss asks you if this is indeed safe.

I'll teach you how to use GSAP in this course for simple animations. Complex animations are out of scope for this course.

## Using GSAP

To use GSAP, you include the a link to the GSAP library in your `html` file, before your JavaScript file. These are libraries, so you need to put them before your main file before your main file can use them.

```
```

## Using GSAP with the starter kit

Now, if you use the starter kit, you can install GSAP into your local bundle with `npm install gsap --dev`. Then, you can import GSAP into your project by writing `import 'gsap'` as the first line of your `main.js` file.

This is already done for you (in the starter files for components that we use GSAP for). More explaination about this will be given to you at the end, nearer to the end in the Webpack module. This is an important for the modern frontend developers. It's going to be exciting toooo!

So anyway, I need to talk about something else. What? Oh! Using GSAP!

IN the basic configuration, GSAP provides you with a global variable called `TweenLite`. TweenLite has the following syntax:

```js
TweenLite.method(element, duration, properties);
```

`method` refers to the GSAP method you'll like to apply. More on the methods later.

`elements` is the `element` you want to animate. If you want to animate multiple elements at once, you can pass in an array of elements.

`duration` is the duration of your animation. This duration is an integer in seconds (without the `s` suffix!).

`properties` is on object of the properties you want to animate. More on this later.

## GSAP methods

to
from
many others you can find online. I'll not talk about the rest in this course (unless I discover you need them later, and I'll share them here. More info to come).

Okay, not going to write this chapter until I build the later ones.

