# Do this for every component

Do you want to thoroughly understand each component you'll learn to build?

Do you want to be able to think like a developer by the end of this course?

Do you want to remember JavaScript for life?

If your answers to the three questions above is yes, you will want to follow these instructions.

## Step 1: Break down the problem yourself

Try to break down the problem for each component. Don't worry if you can't do it for the first few components. I'll show you how to think through each component, what to look out for, so you'll be able to think through components yourself later.

When you do this step, ask yourself these questions:

1. What needs to happen logically?
2. What CSS do you need?
3. How do you write the JavaScript, step by step, until the component works?

Write down your steps on paper or in the text editor before you move to the next step.

## Step 2: Make the HTML, CSS and JavaScript yourself

Try your best. Do this for 1/2 hour, 1 hour max, before you code along with the lesson. Don't worry if it doesn't work out. Don't worry if your component looks like shit.

Focus on the crucial CSS and JavaScript interaction you need to get the component working.

If you do this step, you'll gain the general idea of what needs to happen, which helps you understand and remember the lesson when you read it.

## Step 3: Code along with the lesson.

You'll find the starting HTML and CSS for each component you're going to build in the Github repository. Look under the `components/component-name/01.starter` for each component you want to build.

Make sure you type every line of code you see. Doing so helps you [remember the process](https://zellwk.com/blog/remember/) so you know how to build the component again when you face yet another blank screen.

Let's begin building! :D

---

- Previous Lesson: [A starter template](03.starter-template.md)
- Next Lesson: [Building an off canvas menu](04.building-off-canvas.md)
