# Timeouts

JavaScript has a function, `setTimeout` that lets you execute code after a period of time. It looks like this:

```js
setTimeout(callback, delay)
```

`callback` is the function to execute when the timer expires.

`delay` is the amount of time JavaScript should wait before executing the callback. This `delay` is written in milliseconds. One second is equal to one thousand milliseconds.

If you want to log `I'm late!` into the console three seconds from now, you can write this:

```js
setTimeout(() => {
  console.log(`I'm late!`)
}, 3000)
```

## Promisified timeouts

You can use promises to create timeouts. A promisified timeout is great for learning purposes. We'll use a promisified timeout in the next lesson. Let's learn how to make one and use one now.

First, we'll create a function. Let's call this function `delay`. `delay` should return a promise.

```js
const delay = _ => {
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    // resolve or reject accordingly
  })
}
```

This promise should resolve after the allocated amount of time has passed. We're going to call this allocated amount of time `duration`.

```js
const delay = duration => {
  return new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(() => resolve, duration))
}
```

We can use delay like a normal promise.

```js
// This code logs "Three seconds have passed" after three seconds
delay(3000)
  .then(_ => console.log('Three seconds have passed!'))
```

## Passing values through the promisified timeout

We can `resolve` a value to pass it into the next `then` call. This means we can pass a value into `delay`. Then, we `resolve` this value to pass it through `delay`.

```js
const delay = (duration, value) => {
  return new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(() => resolve(value), duration))
}
```

We can pass a value into next `then` call now.

```js
// This code logs "yay" after three seconds
delay(3000, 'yay')
  .then(value => console.log(value))
```

We can also use `delay` in the middle of a promise. Let's say we fetch a list of my repositories. We want to wait for three seconds before acting on the repositories.

```js
// This code should log repos after three seconds
fetch('https://api.github.com/users/zellwk/repos')
  .then(r => r.json())
  .then(repos => delay(3000, repos))
  .then(repos => console.log(repos))
```

## Using the promisified timeout in an asynchronous function

`delay` is a promise. We can use `await` to wait for `delay` to resolve in an asynchronous function.

If we use `delay` in an asynchronous function, we don't need to pass a value through it. This is because the variables we need are already in scope.

```js
const fetchRepos = async link => {
  const response = fetch(link)
  const repos = response.json()

  // Waits for three seconds
  delay(3000)

  // Logs 30 repositories
  console.log(repos)
}

fetchRepos('https://api.github.com/users/zellwk/repos')
```

## Exercise

1. Use `delay` to start a promise. Wait for 1 second.
2. Use `delay` in the middle of a promise. Wait for 1 second.
3. Use `delay` in an asynchronous function. Wait for 1 second.