# Imperative vs Declarative Programming

When you search about Functional Programming, you'll also come across *declarative* vs *imperative* (or procedural) programming.

Functional Programming is often labeled as a declarative programming paradigm while Object Oriented Programming is labeled as an imperative programming paradigm.

And as you might expect, that's bullshit that takes you further away from the truth. In this lesson, you'll learn what these two programming "paradigms" (declarative and imperative) are really about.

## Imperative Programming

When you write an **imperative (or procedural) program, you tell the program exactly how it should run**.

For example, if you have a line of code that says `1 + 1`, you've written an imperative program. You told the code to add 1 to 1.

Of course, in real life, examples aren't always so simple. A more realistic example of an imperative program is a `for` loop.

```js
const fruitsBasket = ['apple', 'banana', 'pear', 'apple']
const fruitsBought = []

for (let fruit of fruitsBasket) {
  if (fruit === 'apple') {
    fruitsBought.concat(fruit)
  }
}
```

In this loop, what you're saying is:

1. Go through every `fruit` in the `fruitsBasket`
2. If the `fruit` is an apple, buy it (by adding it to the `fruitsBought` array.
3. IF the `fruit` is not an apple, ignore it.

Here, you'll telling the program exactly what to do –  You're saying the code needs to loop over the basket and add any `apples` into the `fruitsBought` array.

## Declarative programming

When you write a **declarative** program, **you tell the program what you'll like to do, but you leave the implementation details to the program** (okay, to another part of your code).

Using the same apples example as above, the declarative program may look like this:

```js
const fruitsBasket = ['apple', 'banana', 'pear', 'apple']
const fruitsBought = buyApples(fruitsBasket)
```

Here, you don't really care what happens in `buyApples`, except it should return an array of apples. You leave the implementation details to the `buyApples` function.

And what would the `buyApples` function be? It could be an imperative program, like this:

```js
const buyApples = fruitsAvailableForPurchase => {
  const boughtItems = []
  for (let fruit of fruitsAvailableForPurchase) {
    if (fruit === 'apple') {
      boughtItems.concat(fruit)
    }
  }
  return boughtItems
}
```

Or, you could use slightly more declarative code, like a `filter` function. You'll learn more about what a `filter` function is and how it works in a later chapter.

Note how you'll always have at least one line of imperative code in the program. You can't run away from it entirely.

```js
const buyApples = fruitsAvailable => {
  // This line is declarative. You called a filter function, but you don't really care how it filters.
  return fruitsAvailable.filter(fruit => {
    // This line is imperative. You're saying it should only be filtered if the fruit matches the string 'apple'
    return fruit === 'apple'
  })
}
```

## Imperative or Declarative?

So, which is better, imperative or declarative?

To answer this question, imagine you're a manager. You have two employees working for you.

The first employee is a robot (no brains), it performs tasks perfectly, but it needs step by step instructions. To get it to bring you coffee, you have to say "walk ten steps into the kitchen, take a cup, put the cup on the coffee machine, press the coffee button, take the cup, walk ten steps back to me and give me the cup".

The second employee is a human (with brains). He's able to perform the task well when you say "bring me some coffee, no sugar".

Which would you prefer?

## Wrapping up

It doesn't really matter whether your program follows at imperative paradigm or a declarative paradigm. What's important is it gets work done (and it doesn't produce side effects).

You'll have at least one line of imperative code in your program anyway. It's not worth fretting over writing pure imperative code vs a pure declarative code.

It's best you learn to write slightly more declarative code by grouping tasks into smaller functions. They make your program easier to understand.