# Preventing Objects from mutating

Mutation can be scary. The question is, how can you prevent objects from mutating without you knowing?

There are two answers: `Object.assign` and `assignment`.

## Object.assign

`Object.assign` lets you combine two (or more) objects together into a single one. It has the following syntax:

```js
const newObject = Object.assign(object1, object2, object3, object4, ...)
```

The new object will contain all properties from the objects you've passed into `Object.assign`

```js
const papayaBlender = { canBlendPapaya: true }
const mangoBlender = { canBlendMango: true }

const fruitBlender = Object.assign(papayaBlender, mangoBlender)

console.log(fruitBlender)
// {
//   canBlendPapaya: true,
//   canBlendMango: true
// }
```

If two conflicting properties are found, the property in a later object overwrites the property in an earlier object.

```js
const smallCupWithEar = {
  volume: 300,
  hasEar: true
}

const largeCup = { volume: 500 }

// In this case, volume gets overwritten from 300 to 500
const myIdealCup = Object.assign(smallCupWithEar, largeCup)

console.log(myIdealCup)
// {
//   volume, 500,
//   hasEar: true
// }
```

Note that, when you combine two objects together with `Object.assign`, the first object gets mutated. Other objects don't get mutated.

```js
console.log(smallCupWithEar)
// {
//   volume, 500,
//   hasEar: true
// }

console.log(largeCup)
// {
//   volume, 500
// }
```

😱😱😱.

## Preventing Object.assign from mutating objects

`Object.assign` always mutates the first object.

To prevent `Object.assign` from mutating your existing objects, you can pass an new empty object as your first object.

You'll still mutate your first object though, but that's okay because you know your existing don't get mutated.

```js
const smallCupWithEar = {
  volume: 300,
  hasEar: true
}

const largeCup = {
  volume: 500
}

// Using a new object as the first argument.
const myIdealCup = Object.assign({}, smallCupWithEar, largeCup)
```

In this case, even if you add a new property to `myIdealCup`, both `smallCupWithEar` and `largeCup` don't get mutated.

```js
myIdealCup.picture = 'Mickey Mouse'
console.log(myIdealCup)
// {
//   volume, 500,
//   hasEar: true
//   picture: 'Mickey Mouse'
// }

// smallCupWithEar doesn't get mutated
console.log(smallCupWithEar)
// {
//   volume, 300,
//   hasEar: true
// }

// largeCup doesn't get mutated as well
console.log(largeCup)
// {
//   volume, 500
// }
```

## Object.assign performs a shallow merge

Let's say you bought a new sound system. This system allows you to toggle whether the power is turned on. It also lets you toggle volume, the amount of bass and other options.

```js
const defaultSettings = {
  power: true,
  soundSettings: {
    volume: 50,
    bass: 20
    // other options
  }
}
```

Some of your friends love loud music, so you decide to create a preset with super loud volume:

```js
const loudPreset = {
  soundSettings: {
    volume: 100
  }
}
```

You invite a few of your friends over and have a party. Since they like loud noises, you try to combine your loud preset with the default one.

```js
const partyPreset = Object.assign({}, defaultSettings, loudPreset)
```

But your new `partyPreset` sounds weird. The volume is loud enough, but the bass is non-existent.

When you inspect `partyPreset`, you're surprised to find that only `volume: 100` from `loudPreset` remained in the `soundSettings` object!

```js
console.log(partyPreset)
// {
//   power: true,
//   soundSettings: {
//     volume: 100
//   }
// }
```

Why?

Let's take it step by step and explain what happened to `partyPreset`.

When you use `Object.assign` to merge an empty object with `defaultSettings`, you'll get an object that's exactly the same as `defaultSettings`.

```js
let partyPreset = Object.assign({}, defaultSettings)
console.log(partyPreset)
// {
//   power: true,
//   soundSettings: {
//     volume: 50,
//     bass: 20
//   }
// }
```

The problem with `Object.assign` is that it performs a **shallow merge**. It copies direct properties (like `defaultSettings.power`) to the original object, but point any nested objects (like `defaultSettings.soundSettings`) to their original references.

So, if you tried to change the deeper properties in `partySettings`, you'll notice same properties in `defaultSettings` changes automatically.

```js
partySettings.soundSettings.bass = 50

// defaultSettings gets mutated
console.log(defaultSettings)
// {
//   power: true,
//   soundSettings: {
//     volume: 50,
//     bass: 50
//   }
// }
```

(It's a hidden mutation! 😱😱😱)

Because `Object.assign` cannot copy nested objects, it swaps references to nested objects if it finds any. This is why the `loudPreset.soundSettings` overwrites `defaultSettings.soundSettings` in `partyPreset`.

```js
// Here, loudPreset.soundSettings overwrites defaultSettings.soundSettings.
const partyPreset = Object.assign({}, defaultSettings, loudPreset)
```

At this point, if you try to add nested properties into `partyPreset.soundSettings`, you'll notice it mutates `loudPreset` too.

```js
partyPreset.soundSettings.bass = 50

console.log(loudPreset)
// {
//   soundSettings: {
//     volume: 100,
//     bass: 50
//   }
// }
```

**So, you need another method if you want to merge nested objects**. `Object.assign` is not enough.

Enter `assignment`.

## Assignment

`assignment` is a [small library](https://github.com/bevacqua/assignment/blob/master/assignment.js) made by [Nicolás Bevacqua](https://twitter.com/nzgb) from [Ponyfoo](https://ponyfoo.com), which is a great source for JavaScript knowledge.

It helps you perform a deep merge without having to worry about mutation. The syntax is exactly the same as `Object.assign`.

```js
// Perform a deep merge with assignment
const partyPreset = assignment({}, defaultSettings, loudPreset)

console.log(partyPreset)
// {
//   power: true,
//   soundSettings: {
//     volume: 100,
//     bass: 20
//   }
// }
//
```

Because `assignment` is able to copy values of nested objects, it prevents your objects getting mutated.

If you try to change any nested property in `partyPreset` now, you'll see that `loudPreset` remains as it was. It doesn't get mutated.

```js
partyPreset.soundSettings.bass = 50

// loudPreset doesn't get mutated
console.log(loudPreset)
// {
//   soundSettings {
//     volume: 100
//   }
// }
```

Note: `assignment` is just one of many libraries that help you perform a deep merge. Other libraries, including [lodash.assign](https://lodash.com/docs#assign) and [merge-options](https://www.npmjs.com/package/merge-options)), can help you do it too. You can choose to use any of these libraries and you'll be fine.

(This is an example where many people create libraries that do the same thing. You don't have to analyze the differences between these libraries because there's no one best library. Pick a library that works for you and you'll be fine).

## Should you always use assignment over Object.assign?

If you need to assign objects with nested properties, always prefer a deep merge over `Object.assign`.

As long as you know how to prevent your objects from mutating, you can use `Object.assign` too. There's no harm in using it as long as you know how to use it properly.

## Wrapping up

`Object.assign` can be used to prevent objects from mutating.

Take note that `Object.assign` can only prevent direct properties from mutating. If you need to merge objects with nested properties, use `assignment` (or other libraries that do the same thing) instead of `Object.assign`.

## Exercise

1. Combine two objects with `Object.assign`.
2. Combine two objects with `assignment`.
3. Try to mutate your objects. Take note of any mutation you found.