# Rest and Spread

In ES6, Rest and Spread operators are useful operators that can help you write concise code. They're kind of confusing if you haven't seen them before, because they take up the same form – `...`.

In this lesson, you'll learn what spread and rest operators are, and why they're useful.

## Array spread

Imagine you're spreading a block of butter on a piece of bread. The **spread** operator behaves in the same way – it spreads out an array into a comma-delimited list of arguments.

```js
const array = [1, 2, 3]

// These two are the same
console.log(...array) // 1 2 3
console.log(1, 2, 3) // 1 2 3
```

You can spread an array anywhere, even when you're calling a function:

```js
const names = ['Zell', 'Thomas', 'Jacin']
const logNames = (first, second, third) => {
  console.log(first) // Zell
  console.log(second) // Thomas
  console.log(third) // Jacin
}

// Spreading names into the function
logNames(...names)
```

### Spread is a great substitute for Array.concat

In the arrays lesson, you learned that you can use `Array.concat` to add an items to the front of an array:

```js
const itemToAdd = 1
const existingArray = [2, 3]
const combinedArray = [itemToAdd].concat(existingArray)

console.log(combinedArray) // [1, 2, 3]
```

With ES6 spread, you can do the same by creating an array and spreading your original items into the new array, at the right place:

```js
const array = [2, 3]
const combinedArray = [1, ...array] // [1, 2, 3]
```

You also learned that you can use `Array.concat` to add items to the back of an array:

```js
const originalArray = [2, 3]
const combinedArray = originalArray.concat(4, 5)

console.log(combinedArray) // [2, 3, 4, 5]
```

With ES6 spread, you can follow the same syntax too:

```js
const array = [2, 3]
const prependedArray = [...array, 4, 5] // [2, 3, 4, 5]
```

With ES6 spread, you can even spread your array items in the middle of the new array:

```js
const array = [2, 3]
const combinedArray = [1, ...array, 4, 5] // [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
```

What if you want to combine two arrays?

You spread both of them.

```js
const firstArray = [0, 1]
const secondArray = [2, 3]

const combinedArray = [...firstArray, ...secondArray] // [0, 1, 2, 3]
```

That's it for spread.

## Rest

**Rest** does the opposite of spread. It packs a comma-delimited list of arguments back into an array.

Let's say you want to create a function called `logNames`. This function should `console.log` names of people you provide to it, and you're supposed provide ten arguments into the function, like this:

```js
logNames('Zell', `Thomas`, 'Jacin', 'Vincy', 'Jing', 'Soares', 'Gabrielle', 'Justin')
```

One quick way to solve the problem is to pack every argument into an array with the rest operator.

```js
const logNames = ...names => {
  names.forEach(name => console.log(name))
}
```

### Rest and Destructuring

When you destructure an array, the first variable you destructure will always be the first item in the array, the second variable will always be the second item, and so on.

What if you wanted to store the rest of the items in the array in a separate variable?

You can do this with the rest operator

```js
const scores = [100, 99, 98]
const [first, ...restOfScores] = scores

console.log(first) // 100
console.log(restOfScores) // [99, 98]
```

## Object Rest and Spread

ES6 rest and spread operators work on arrays only. In ES8, rest and spread operators will come to objects too.

## Wrapping up

Both Rest and Spread operators use `...`.

Spread is used to spread an array into a comma-delimited list of arguments.

Rest is used to pack a comma-delimited list of arguments back into an array

## Exercise

Practice using spread and rest operators by doing the following:

1. Spread an array
2. Spread an array when calling a function
3. Concatenate arrays with spread
4. Use the rest operator as a function argument
5. Destructure variables with rest.


