# Early returns

In JavaScript, functions can contain a return statement—which consist of a `return` keyword and a value.

```js
const multiple = (num1, num2) => {
  return num1 * num2
}
```

When JavaScript sees a `return` keyword, it returns the value associated with the `return` keyword to the code that called the function. Code after the return statement is not read.

```js
const multiple = (num1, num2) => {
  return num1 * num2
  console.log('This statement will never be read!')
}
```

You can use this `return` statement in a control flow to return a value early. This is called an **early return**.

## When to use early returns

You want to use early returns for two situations:

1. To reduce nested code
2. To remove the need for `else if` statements

### Reducing nested code

When we use the event delegation pattern, we usually need to search for an element; when the element is present, we execute some code.

```js
container.addEventListener('click', e => {
  const el = e.target.closest('.some-element')
  if (el) {
    // Rest of the code here
  }
})
```

You don't need to nest the rest of the code if you used an early return.

```js
container.addEventListener('click', e => {
  const el = e.target.closest('.some-element')
  if (!el) { return }

  // Rest of the code here
})
```

### Removing else if statements

An `else if` statement is used when you need a control flow that can execute three or more code blocks.

Let's say you want to get a gift for your kid.

- If they scored 100 marks, you'll buy them an Xbox.
- If they scored between 76 to 100 marks, you'll get them a new phone.
- If they scored between 51 to 75, you'll bring them for a meal.
- If they got below 50, they'll get nothing.

```js
let gift

if (score === 100) {
  gift = 'Xbox'
} else if (score > 75) {
  gift = 'new phone'
} else if (score > 50) {
  gift = 'A meal'
} else {
  gift = null
}
```

As mentioned previously, `if/else` branches take up brainpower. `else if` branches take up even more brainpower.

To simplify the code above, you can create a function that determines the gift, and use early returns within the function.

```js
const getGift = score => {
  if (score === 100) { return 'Xbox' }
  if (score > 75) { return 'new phone' }
  if (score > 50) { return 'meal' }
  return null
}

const gift = getGift(70)
console.log(gift) // 'meal'
```

## Curly brackets and if statements

Curly brackets for an `if` (or `else`, or `else if`) statement indicate the code to run when the condition is met.

```js
if (condition) {
  console.log('Say cheese!')
}
```

If you only need one expression, you can omit the curly brackets.

```js
const getGift = score => {
  if (score === 100) return 'Xbox'
  if (score > 75) return 'new phone'
  if (score > 50) return 'meal'
  return null
}
```
