# Default parameters

When you create functions, you can provide each parameter with a default value. Here's how you do it.

```js
const calculateTaxes = (income, taxRate = 0.17)
  => income * taxRate
```

If the user uses `calculateTaxes` without passing in `taxRate`, `taxRate` will default to 17.

If the user passes in a tax rate, the `taxRate` will be the value passed in by the user.

```js
// With default tax rate
console.log(calculateTaxes(100)) // 17
console.log(calculateTaxes(100, 0.15)) // 15
```

Default parameters are great because they let your users use your function without writing additional arguments—lesser work on their part (or yours, if you're using the function).

## Optional destructured parameters

When a function requires four (or more) parameters, users can find it difficult to remember the order of arguments to pass in.

Take for example, the `createUser` function below. What if you to passed `email` as the first argument by accident?

```js
const createUser = (firstName, lastName, email, password, location) {
  // ...
}

createUser('Zell', 'Liew', 'zell@zellwk.com', '12345678', 'Singapore')
```

When your function requires many parameters, it makes sense pass an object instead. This way, users won't have to remember the order of arguments. They just need to make sure everything is passed in.

```js
const createUser = (user) {
  const { firstName, lastName, email, password, location } = user
  // ...
}

createUser({
  email: 'zell@zellwk.com',
  password: '12345678',
  firstName: 'Zell',
  lastName: 'Liew',
  location: 'Singapore'
})
```

Let's say you're building an app for Singaporeans. In this case, the `location` parameter can be set to `Singapore` by default.

Here's one way to do so:

```js
const createUser = (user) {
  const {
    location = 'Singapore'
  } = user

  // ...
}
```

Another way (which is quite popular) is to destructure the parameter directly. To do so, parameter must be optional (defaults to empty object.

```js
const createUser = (user = {}) {
  // ...
}
```

Next, you destructure the object; when you do so, you provide a default value to `location`.

```js
const createUser = ({
  firstName,
  lastName,
  email,
  password
  location = 'Singapore'
} = {}) {
  // ...
}
```

Note: I prefer the first method because I can still use the `user` object. In the second method, I lost the `user` object; I can only use the destructured variables.

## Exercise

1. Create a function, `signUpForPlan`, that takes in one parameter, `plan`. `plan` defaults to `basic.
2. Create a function, `createEmployee` that takes in an object
  2. The object has five properties:
    1. First Name
    2. Last Name
    3. Age
    4. Gender
    5. Position
  3. Position can be default to `associate`.