# 🛠 Improving accordion outline

We learned 11 useful JavaScript features in this module. They are:

1. Ternary operators
2. `&&` and `||` operators
3. Early returns
4. Template literals
5. Destructuring
6. Default parameters
7. Enhanced object literals
8. Rest and spread operators
9. Useful array methods
10. Looping through objects
11. Returning objects implicitly

We can use three of them—ternary operators, early returns, and template literals—in the accordion.

## Using early returns

When the `click` event activates, we checked if the event target is inside the accordion's header. If it is, we'll open and close the accordion. Otherwise, we do nothing.

```js
container.addEventListener('click', e => {
  const header = e.target.closest('.accordion__header')
  if (header) {
    // Open and close accordion
  }
})
```

We can simplify the code above with an early return.

```js
container.addEventListener('click', e => {
  const header = e.target.closest('.accordion__header')
  if (!header) return
  // Open and close accordion
})
```

## Using ternary operators

We set the `height` of the accordion content with JavaScript. To do so, we need to check if the accordion is already open.

```js
const height = inner.getBoundingClientRect().height

if (accordion.classList.contains('is-open')) {
  content.style.height = '0px'
} else {
  content.style.height = height + 'px'
}
```

Notice we're doing two things here.

1. We're getting the `height` value from `.accordion__inner`
2. We're setting the `height` on `.accordion__content`

We can improve the code by writing a ternary operator to get the correct height, regardless of whether the accordion is currently open.

```js
const height = accordion.classList.contains('is-open')
  ? inner.getBoundingClientRect().height
  : 0
```

Then, we set `.accordion__content`'s height.

```js
content.style.height = height + 'px'
```

## Using template literals

Notice we set the content height with `height + 'px'`. We can replace this string concatenation with a template literal.

```js
content.style.height = `${height}px`
```

And we're done improving the accordion.