Few things here.

The Date object. Constructor actually...

const date = new Date() => show now. you can console.log it and it'll show you a text string that looks like this:

Thu May 24 2018 17:07:05 GMT+0800 (GMT+08:00)

console.log(date)
console.log(typeof date)

Ooh changing locales! FUCK Moment.js or date-fns. Dates are not fun to work with. If you need to work with dates, consider date-fns library.

But if it's a simple date thing, then feel free to do it with JavaScript.

There are a few things we want to make sure of here.

Timestamp

## Creating date

new Date(value);
new Date(dateString)
new Date(year, month [, day [, hours [, minutes [, seconds [, milliseconds]]]]])

Year and month are required values if you want to set. Otherwise new Date will screw up and give you 1 January 1970.

Uh, When you use Year, make sure you enter the 4 digit value. THis will clear up some confusion.

When you use month, month number is the actual month number minus one. It's like an array that says [Jaruary to December]. 0 means January. 1 mean February, 2 means March... 11 means December.

If you use 13, Date will help you add one yea automatically.

Timestamp is the number of milliseconds since XXX date.

You can compare two dates by comparing the timestamps.

To get year, you can use XXX



## Get

Notes from Stephen

Hi @channel, I just recently learned an interesting thing I wanted to share. Looking back it’s so obvious, but not when you’re writing code. A few days ago, a reservation feature broke, which was odd because it had not been touched since it’s last testing and was working fine. It was a date picker. The bug was that because it was the 31st day of the month, when a user changed the month for the reservation to a month that didn’t have 31 days, it a) would not let the user select the month, even when selecting a day less than 31 and b) choose only months with 31 days.

So that’s awesome. After spending a lot of time with the debugger and call stack I finally trace it to the fact that the date was being built in the wrong order. The functions and method was fine, but if you set month before set date, then when you set a date that doesn’t exist in that month, JS changes your month to the next month that has that number day. WTF…

The easy solution is to build the date from small to big, but for many it makes sense in their heads to go big to small (i.e,. year, month, date, hour, minute, etc)
Here’s what i changed it to, I hope this little lesson helps others out when working with date objects.

```const resDate = new Date()
resDate.setMinute(minuteInput)
resDate.setHour(hourInput)
resDate.setDate(dateInput)
resDate.setMonth(monthInput)
resDate.setYear(yearInput)
```

In this way….resDate is first constructed to today’s date( let’s say aug 31), and let’s say the reservation is for Sep 28.  Well you set the date and then the month so it catches up.  If you wanted dec 31, and you are in Sep… Sep only has 30 days. When you set the date, it will change the month, (resDate would be 31 Oct) but that’s ok because then you set the month to Dec after, so invisible to you, the month actually changes Sep-Oct-Dec during the process.