# Local time and UTC Time

It's harder to talk about time in JavaScript because we live in a global world. We have to account for timezone differences. Your 8AM isn't the same as my 8AM. 

The `Date` methods you learned in the previous lessons all give you a value according to the local time. 

## Local Time

Local time refers to the timezone where JavaScript gets executed. 

Let's say we have a piece of code that sets time to 8:30am on 25th December, 2016. (We'll talk about setting date/time in the next lesson. Follow along for now). 

```js
const date = new Date('2016-12-25T08:30')
```

What would the value of `date` be? 

- For me, its 25th Dec, 2016 at 8:30am at GMT+8 (Singapore time). 
- For you, its 25th Dec, 2016 at 8:30am, but it'll be a different timezone. 

## GMT

GMT is an abbreviation for **Greenwich Mean Time**. It measures the mean solar time at the Royal Observatory in Greenwich, London. 

This is the time we normally state our timezones in. For example:

1. Singapore is `GMT +8`
2. San Francisco is `GMT -7`

These `+8` and `-7` values aren't called timezone differences. They're actually called **offsets**.

### Offsets !== timezones

This is one common misconception most people have. 

Offsets aren't the same as timezones because timezones can be affected my factors like:

1. Daylight savings time 
2. Decisions made by local governments

[This Stack overflow][1] post goes dives into more detail why offsets aren't the same as timezones. 

This means getting timezones 100% right is hard. If you want to be 100% accurate about timezones, you'll have to use the [IANA timezone database][2] to track offsets in every city. I highly recommend using a library like [Moment Timezone][3] if you ever need to work with timezones in JavaScript. 

## UTC

UTC is an abbreviation for **Coordinated Universal Time** (or simply, universal time). It is the time standard used to regulate the world's clock. 

For simplicity, we can treat GMT and UTC as the same thing  ([even though they're not][4]). 

Notes: 

1. It's UTC and not CUT 😉. Why? [This article][5] gives you some insight if you're interested. 
2. GMT and UTC actually mean different things. UTC is slightly more accurate than GMT. [This article][6] can explain why. 

## UTC Date methods

JavaScript contains UTC versions of the date methods. Here's a list. Notice how everything begins with `getUTC` 😁. 

1. `getUTCFullYear`: Gets 4-digit year according to universal time 
2. `getUTCMonth`: Gets month of year (0-11) according to universal time. 
3. `getUTCDate`: Gets day of the month (1-31) according to universal time. 
4. `getUTCDay`: Gets day of week (0-6) according to universal time. 
5. `getUTCHours`: Gets hours (0-23) according to universal time. 
6. `getUTCMinutes`: Gets minutes (0-59) according to universal time. 
7. `getUTCSeconds`: Gets seconds (0-59) according to universal time.
8. `getUTCMilliseconds`: Gets milliseconds (0-999) according to universal time.


[1]:	https://stackoverflow.com/tags/timezone/info
[2]:	https://www.iana.org/time-zones
[3]:	https://momentjs.com/timezone/
[4]:	https://medium.com/@toastui/handling-time-zone-in-javascript-547e67aa842d
[5]:	https://medium.com/@toastui/handling-time-zone-in-javascript-547e67aa842d
[6]:	https://medium.com/@toastui/handling-time-zone-in-javascript-547e67aa842d
