# Setting a specific date

JavaScript's `Date` object lets you set a specific date/time. To set a date/time, you pass a value into the `Date` object. 

```js
const Christmas = new Date('2019-12-25')
console.log(Chrismas) // Wed Dec 25 2019 08:00:00 GMT+0800 (Singapore Standard Time)
```

There are three ways to get `Date` to set a specific date/time.

1. Pass in arguments for year, month, day, hours, minutes, seconds, and milliseconds. 
2. Pass in a date string 
3. Pass in a Unix Timestamp value 

## Passing in arguments to Date

You can pass in up to 7 arguments to create a date/time. 

1. Year: 4-digit year. 
2. Month: Month of the year (0-11). This is zero-indexed. Defaults to 0 if omitted.
3. Day: Day of the month (1-31). Defaults to 1 if omitted.
4. Hour: Hour of the day (0-23). Defaults to 0 if omitted.
5. Minutes: Minutes (0-59). Defaults to 0 if omitted.
6. Seconds: Seconds (0-59). Defaults to 0 if omitted.
7. Milliseconds: Milliseconds (0-999). Defaults to 0 if omitted.

Here are some details to watch out for: 

1. Date defaults to the current time if no arguments are present. 
2. Date is always created in Local Time. If you want UTC time, use `new Date(Date.UTC(...args))`. 

Here's are some examples: 

```js
// 25th December, 2019 at 8am. Local Time.
const date = new Date(2019, 11, 25, 8)
```

```js
// 25th December, 2019 at 8am. UTC
const UTCDate = new Date(Date.UTC(2019, 11, 25, 8))
```

## Passing a date string to Date

You can pass in a date string to the `Date` object. I discourage this approach because different browsers accept different date formats. 

If you ever need to pass in a date string, you should use the ISO 8601 Extended format. 

```js
// ISO 8601 Extended format
`YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss:sssZ`
```

Here's what the values mean: 

- `YYYY`: 4 digit year 
- `MM`: 2 digit month (where January is 01 and December is 12)
- `DD`: 2 digit date (0 to 31)
- `T`: Indicates the start of time
- `HH`: 24-digit hour (0 to 23) 
- `mm`: Minutes (0 to 59)
- `ss`: Seconds (0 to 59)
- `sss`: Milliseconds (0 to 999)
- `Z`: If `Z` is present, date will be set to UTC. If `Z` is not present, it'll be Local Time. 
- `-`: Date delimiters
- `:`: Time delimiters

Some notes: 

1. Most browsers support the ISO 8601 format
2. Browser support becomes wonky if you did not pass the values as expected. For example: 
	1. Safari returns `invalidDate` if you pass in `2019-2` (single-digit-month). 
	2. Chrome returns `invalidDate` if you passed in `2019-02T00` (Chrome requires `THH:mm` at least). 
3. Always watch for UTC vs Local Time. (See next section). 

Examples: 

```js
// 25th December, 2019 at 8am. Local Time
const date = new Date('2019-12-25T08:00')
```

```js
// 25th December, 2019 at 8am. UTC.
const date = new Date('2019-12-25T08:00Z')
```

### Always specify the timezone offset with the date string approach

The date string approach has a unique rule. The following applies if you omit the timezone offset:

1. date-only strings (like `2019-12-25`) are created in UTC. 
2. date-time strings (like `2019-12-25T08:00`) are created in Local Time. 

```js
// 25th December, 2019. UTC
const date = new Date('2019-12-25')
```

```js
// 25th December, 2019. Local Time
const date = new Date('2019-12-25T00:00')
```

This rule is confusing because all other Date methods default to Local Time. This one rule is the exception. 

So, make sure you include `THH:mm` if you use the date string approach. This makes date creation consistent across different methods. 

## Passing in a Unix timestamp

Date/time in JavaScript starts counting from 1 January, 1970, at 12am. This time is known as the Unix Epoch time. (Epoch means the beginning of a period in history). 

**A timestamp is the amount of time since Unix Epoch time**. Timestamps can be written in seconds or milliseconds, depending on the programming language. In JavaScript, we calculate timestamps in milliseconds. 

To get the timestamp, you can use `getTime`. 

```js
const oct2018 = new Date(2018, 9)
const timestamp = oct2018.getTime()
console.log(timestamp) // 1538323200000
```

Alternatively, you can use `Date.now()` to get the current timestamp. 

```js
const timestamp = Date.now()
console.log(timestamp) // 1548229765339
```

If you pass in a timestamp to the `Date` object, it will create a date at that timestamp. 

```js
const christmas2016 = new Date(1482624000000)
console.log(christmas2016) // Sun Dec 25 2016 08:00:00 GMT+0800 (Singapore Standard Time)
```

### A minor detail about timestamps

Timestamps do not include [leap seconds][1]. This means you may occasionally see two times with the same timestamp. 

Time                     | UNIX Timestamp
\---- --------------------------|---------------
1998-12-31T23:59:60.000Z | 915148800.00
1999-01-01T00:00:00.000Z | 915148800.00

This is tiny leap second thing not an issue in everyday programming. But it's something to you should know. 

## Exercise

Set the following date/time: 

1. With the arguments approach: 
	1. Set date to `2015-08-28` and time to 12:30pm Local Time
	2. Set date to `2015-05-20` and time to 4pm UTC
2. With the date string approach: 
	1. Set date to `2015-03-28` and time to Midnight Local Time
	2. Set date to `2015-02-20` and time to 4pm UTC
3. With the timestamp approach: 
	1. Get timestamp for `2015-04-30T04:30:33.555Z`.
	2. Set date to `1548449765339`. What's this date?

[1]:	https://www.timeanddate.com/time/leapseconds.html