# Prevent mutations

To mutate means to change in form or nature. Something that’s mutable can be changed, while something that’s immutable cannot be changed.

To understand mutation, think of the X-Men. In X-Men, people can suddenly gain powers. The problem is, you don’t know when these powers will emerge. Imagine your friend turns blue and grows fur all of a sudden; that’d be scary, wouldn’t it?

In JavaScript, the same problem with mutation applies. If your code is mutable, you might change (and break) something without knowing.

## Objects are mutable in JavaScript

In JavaScript, you can add properties to an object. When you do so after initializing it, the object is changed permanently. It mutates, like how an X-Men member mutates when they gain powers.

In the example below, the variable `egg` mutates once you add the `isBroken` property to it. We say that objects (like `egg`) are mutable (have the ability to mutate).

```js
const egg = { name: "Humpty Dumpty" };
egg.isBroken = false;

console.log(egg);
// {
//   name: "Humpty Dumpty",
//   isBroken: false
// }
```

Mutation is pretty normal in JavaScript. You use it all the time.

**But mutation can become scary if you misuse it.**

Let’s say you create a new variable called `newEgg` and assign `egg` to it. Then you want to change the name of `newEgg` to something else.

```js
const egg = { name: "Humpty Dumpty" };

const newEgg = egg;
newEgg.name = "Errr ... Not Humpty Dumpty";
```

When you change (mutate) `newEgg`, did you know `egg` gets mutated automatically?

```js
console.log(egg);
// {
//   name: "Errr ... Not Humpty Dumpty"
// }
```

The example above illustrates why mutation can be scary—when you change one piece of your code, another piece can change somewhere else without your knowing. As a result, you’ll get bugs that are hard to track and fix.

This weird behavior happens because objects are passed by reference in JavaScript.

### Objects are passed by reference

To understand what “passed by reference” means, first you have to understand that each object has a unique identity in JavaScript. When you assign an object to a variable, you link the variable to the identity of the object (that is, you pass it by reference) rather than assigning the variable the object’s value directly.

This is why when you compare two different objects, you get false even if the objects have the same values.

```js
console.log({} === {}); // false
```

When you assign `egg` to `newEgg`, `newEgg` points to the same object as `egg`. Since `egg` and `newEgg` are the same thing, when you change `newEgg`, `egg` gets changed automatically.

```js
console.log(egg === newEgg); // true
```

Unfortunately, you don’t want `egg` to change along with `newEgg` most of the time, since it causes your code to break when you least expect it. You'll learn how to prevent objects from mutating in the next lesson.

Before you understand how to prevent objects from mutating, you need to know what’s immutable in JavaScript.

## Primitives are immutable in JavaScript

In JavaScript, primitives (`String`, `Number`, `Boolean`, `Null`, `Undefined`, and `Symbol`) are immutable; you cannot change the structure (add properties or methods) of a primitive. Nothing will happen even if you try to add properties to a primitive.

```js
const egg = "Humpty Dumpty";
egg.isBroken = false;

console.log(egg); // Humpty Dumpty
console.log(egg.isBroken); // undefined
```
