# One function, one purpose

Function should have a singular purpose. When they have a singular purpose, they're easier to read, understand, and use.

To put this lesson into perspective, let's say you need to perform two actions:

1. Add two numbers together
2. Multiply the result of the first two numbers

To perform these two actions, you can create a function called `sum` and a function called `multiply`.

```js
const sum = (n1 + n2) => n1 + n2
const multiply = (n1, n2) => n1 * n2
```

Let's put these functions to the test. Say you want to add `22` and `66` together, then multiply the result by 3.

To do so, you can split up the calculations into different lines of code as follows:

```js
const temporaryResult = sum(22, 66);
const result = multiply(temporaryResult, 3)
```

You can also write everything in a single line of code:

```js
const result = multiply(sum(22 + 66), 3)
```

## Functions with multiple purposes are confusing

Let's say you want to perform the same action as above. Instead of creating two separate functions, `sum` and `multiply`, you create a function called `sumThenMultiply`.

```js
const sumThenMultiply = (n1, n2, n3) => result = (n1 + n2) * n3
```

Using this `sumThenMultiply` function is straightforward as well.

```js
const result = sumThenMultiply(22, 66, 3)
```

Which method creates code that's easier to understand? `sum` and `multiply`, or `sumThenMultiply`?

```js
// Version 1: sum and multiply as separate functions
const v1Results = multiply(sum(22 + 66), 3)

// Version 2: sumThenMultiply
const v2Results = sumThenMultiply(22, 66, 3)
```

## Functions with one purpose can be used in many ways

Let's say you have four numbers. You want to perform a calculation such that you multiple the sum of the first two numbers, and the sum of the last two numbers.

```js
// Desired result = (22 + 66) * (40 + 30)
```

If you need to multiply a sum of two groups of numbers, you can't reuse `sumThenMultiply`, but you can reuse `sum` and `multiply` functions.

```js
const result = multiply(sum(22, 66), sum(40, 30))
```
