# Welcome to Learn JavaScript!

I'm thrilled to see you in the course. Thanks for leaping. It is my pleasure to help you learn JavaScript.

I promise that Learn JavaScript is going to be one of your best investments this year. If you put in the effort to learn JavaScript through this course, you'll understand JavaScript, remember it for life, and you'll be able to build things from scratch without copy-pasting code.

I'll go so far to say that you'll love Learn JavaScript so much by the end of the course that you'll want to tell everyone about it. If you do feel this way, I encourage you to leave a testimonial, share your journey, and spread the word about Learn JavaScript.

But let's not get carried away yet. Let's take a step at a time.

Here's how to get the best out of Learn JavaScript:

## How to best use the course

Before you move into the lessons proper, I have seven tips to help you supercharge your learning process:

1. Learn a bit of JavaScript everyday
2. Go through the theory sections slowly
3. Do every exercise you encounter
4. Ask questions, share your answers, and teach others
5. Code along, then build it once more
6. Take breaks
7. Form accountability groups

### Learn a bit of JavaScript everyday

Set aside 30-60mins a day to learn JavaScript.

Keep this learning period free of distractions. Shut the door, and tell your family you need time alone if necessary. Focus is paramount to learning.

Make sure you're in a fresh state. If you feel tired, you won't learn much. If it helps, you can try waking up 30-60mins earlier to learn (if you do this, make sure you sleep earlier too).

Don't try to cram too many things into your head in a day—you'll simply forget what you learned. 30-60 mins is great.

### Go through the theory slowly

Theory lessons are there to help you build a foundation so you know what to do when you reach the practical lessons.

**Take your time. Read through the theory slowly, word by word.**

Make sure you understand a lesson (or even a section of the lesson) before you move on to the next one.

If you feel confused, ask immediately. You have a support group—the private community—in this course. Make use of it. You can get access to the community in [README.md](../README.md).

**Do not move on until your confusion is cleared up.** If you're confused, you won't be able to learn the next thing well.

When you complete a lesson, write down what you learned in your own words. Writing gives you more clarity, and helps you retain the lesson for a longer period. Share this lesson with someone else—put it on your blog, write it on medium, or share it with someone in the community; if you share, you learn more.

The next day, summarize what you've learned yesterday before reading the next lesson. This process helps to etch the lesson deeper into your brain.

### Do the exercises

Some lessons contain exercises. Do them. They'll help you solidify the knowledge you've gained.

Answers are not provided for these exercises, because you'll learn better when you ask and teach. The community is here to help you learn—post your answers and ask for help if you're unsure.

Don't be afraid to ask questions even if you don't know what to ask—learning to code involves learning to ask the right questions. Start asking, and you'll learn to ask better questions along the way.

Here's an [unofficial answer repo](https://github.com/chiangs/jsf-solutions), created by students, for each of the exercises you'll go through. You can refer to and contribute to it too!

### Teach others

We're here to learn together. Let's support each other in our learning. If you get a chance to answer a question in the community, answer it.

When you answer a question, you recall the lesson from your memory. When you explain concepts, you break down the concepts in simpler ways to teach to another student. Together these will help you remember and learn JavaScript better.

Help others, help yourself.

### Code along, then build it once more

Do the following when you get to the practical parts.

**First, write down what you need to do to create the component.** If you don't know how, that's okay. Use your best guess. When you write down your process, you can see the difference between how you think and how I think. That's how you learn to think like a developer.

**Second, code along with the tutorial.** Make sure you type every word manually. This helps you remember the functions and methods through muscle memory.

**Third, code the component yourself**. If you can complete the component without referring to the solution, summarize your learnings and start the next lesson. If you can't code it up yourself, figure out what you don't understand and try again.

### Take breaks

Learning is a marathon. Although it's fun, it can be tough. Sometimes, your brain just doesn't want to cooperate. You make silly mistakes and you blank out. Sometimes, you just don't want to learn anymore.

When this happens, it's time to take a break.

When you take breaks, you brain organizes the information you learned, stores it in the "right" place—wherever that is—for easy recall.

Remember, practicing 30 mins a day yields better results than forcing a four-hour day every week. If you feel that you need to rest after 15 mins today, give yourself a break and come back tomorrow. Consistency is the key to learning.

If you happen to go past 60 minutes in your session, that's perfectly fine too. You already know when you need a break to complete the marathon.

### Form accountability groups

It helps to have people study with you. Reach out to the community, introduce yourself and ask if anyone wants to study JavaScript together.

Better yet, share your experience—what you learned today, what you got stuck with, etc.—with the community. You'll motivate people, and people will motivate you back.

## Have fun learning JavaScript!

That's all the learning tips I have for you. I hope you use the tips to learn JavaScript well. I hope you help others and help yourself.

With that, let's begin the journey. Flip over to the next lesson whenever you're ready.

Oh, and have fun learning JavaScript! :)

---

- Next Lesson: [What is JavaScript](02.what-is-javascript.md)
