# The Fetch API

1. What is Fetch?
  1. Fetch is a newer method to get data from servers
  2. It looks like this
  3. We'll go through example
  4. If you want to get a list of my repos from Github, you'll do this
  5. We'll explain how to get the link later.
  6. If you want to use your own repo, you substitute zellwk with your Github username
2. Requests
  1. The fetch line you wrote earlier is called a request.
  2. Requests
    2. We "requested" for some information from Github. This is called a GET request.
    3. There are five types of requests—will lear about this, along with other important notes about requests in the requests lesson
      1. GET - used to get (or read) information
      2. POST - used to create new pieces of information
      3. PUT - used to update information
      4. Patch - used to update information too
      5. Delete - used to delete information.
    4. If you've heard of CRUD, this is where it comes from—Create, Read, Update, Delete.
3. The information sent back from the server is called a response.
  1. To see a response that is fetched with the Fetch API, you need write `then` twice.
  2. The first `then` contains information about the type of response.
  3. The second `then` contains the response itself.
  4. This syntax is unique to the Fetch API.
  5. What we're interested in is in the second `then` call.
  6. But to get the response, we need to convert it into JSON
  7. Which is this
  8. When you console.log the data, you see a JSON object.
  9. Which is huge.
  10. To read data, we need to convert the object back into JavaScript with JSON.parse.
  11. Then `console.log`
4. Massage the data
  1. What comes in the next step, after fetching a piece of data is called data massaging. This means we want to convert the fetched data into an object we'd like to use. Which means we filter out things that are not important.
  2. Let's go through an example
  3. Say you want a list of repositories I starred.
  4. To do so, you need to dive into the data itself
  5. Search for the thing
  6. Filter it.
  7. If you want to reduce the information further, you might want to run a map function to create a new array.
  8. LIke this
  9. Finally, when you have the array, you can act on it.
  10. If you want write this list to the document, you can use the methods you learned before. Whatever methods they are! Muahaha
5. Rate limits
  1. You might get an error about exceeding the limit. If you get this error, stop whatever you're doing and come back again in an hour. We'll talk about rate limits in the Understanding API documentation lesson.
6. Okay, then I need to talk about exercises
  1. Fetch a list of my repositories from Github
  2. Get a list of repos that are more than 300 stars
  3. Write these repos into the DOM.

I probably need a lesson on Requests and Responses.

Don't really know what needs to come next though. There seems to be a ton of information we need to work on. Hm.

There are other data types too—blob (for image) text (for text) and arrayBuffer (for text) and formData (for form data) Not sure where to include. But leave it here for now. Definitely not in this lesson.