# 🛠️ Todolist: The Todolist API

Many APIs don't accept CORS requests. To access these APIs, you need to send your requests through a server. Examples of these APIs include Twitter and Instagram. 

There's a set of APIs out there that are open to anyone, like the Dota API, but you can only send GET requests to these APIs. You can't send POST, PUT or DELETE requests to them (because they don't want you to change their databases). 

I searched through the internet as I created this course, but I can't find a suitable API (that's free) that lets you send POST, PUT, and DELETE requests. 

I want to give you the experience of building a real UI that uses an API, so I built an API for the Todolist.

The Todolist API lets you: 

1. Get a list of tasks 
2. Create a new task 
3. Edit a task 
4. Delete a task 

You'll learn more about the API in this lesson. 

## The root endpoint

The root endpoint for the API is:

```
https://api.learnjavascript.today/
```

## Users

You probably want your own Todolist. (You don't want other students' task to appear on your Todolist, do you?). That's why we need users. 

### Create user

You need to create a user to use the Todolist API. This API will create three tasks for you automatically.

```
POST /users
```

Input:

Field      | Type   | Description
\-----------|--------|------------
`username` | String | **Required**. The user's username
`password` | String | **Required**. The user's password

Example:

```js
zlFetch(`${rootendpoint}/users`, {
  method: 'post',
  body: {
    username: 'zellwk',
    password: '12345678
  }
})
```

Response:

The API returns the username and `id` of the user if the request is successful: 

```json
{
  "username": "zellwk",
  "id": "5cc90a78f267395a2811145e"
}
```

### Get user

Use this to check if your `username` exists. If it exists, the endpoint will respond with a `username` and an `id`

```
GET /users/:username
```

Example:

```js
zlFetch(`${rootendpoint}/users/zellwk`)
```

Response:

```json
{
  "username": "zellwk",
  "id": "5cc90a78f267395a2811145e"
}
```

### Delete user

Deletes the user and the tasks they've created

```
DELETE /users/:username
```

Response:

The API returns a the `username` and `id` of the deleted user if the request is successful. 

```json
{
  "username": "zellwk",
  "id": "5cc90a78f267395a2811145e"
}
```

## Tasks

This is where you'll spend most of your time on. 

There are endpoints for getting tasks, creating a task, editing a task, and also deleting a task.

### Get tasks

Gets a list of tasks the user has created. This endpoint requires basic authentication. 

```
GET /tasks
```

Example:

```js
zlFetch(`${rootendpoint}/tasks`, {
  username: 'zellwk', 
  password: '12345678'
})
```

Response is an array of tasks that contains the following properties:

```json
[{
  "id": "5b8f7b2713b6e114ab5e5645",
  "task": "Learn JavaScript for 30 minutes",
  "done": "false"
}]
```

### Create a task

Creates a task. This endpoint requires basic authentication. 

```
POST /tasks/
```

Input:

Field  | Type    | Description
\-------|---------|------------
`name` | String  | **Required**. The task
`done` | Boolean | Whether the task completed

Example:

```js
zlFetch(`${rootendpoint}/tasks`, {
  method: 'post',
  username: 'zellwk', 
  password: '12345678',
  body: { 
    name: 'Learn JavaScript for 30 minutes' 
  }
})
```

Response:

The server will respond with the created task if the request is successful.

```json
{
  "id": "5b8f7b2713b6e114ab5e5645",
  "name": "Learn JavaScript for 30 minutes",
  "done": "false"
}
```

### Update a task

Updates the specified task. This endpoint requires basic authentication. 

```
PUT /tasks/:taskid
```

Input:

Field  | Type    | Description
\-------|---------|------------
`name` | String  | The task.
`done` | Boolean | Whether the task completed

Note: Both `name` and `done` are optional. If you are editing a task, make sure to change one of them. Otherwise, what's the point in making this request?

Example:

```js
zlFetch(`${rootendpoint}/tasks/5b8f7b2713b6e114ab5e5645`, {
  method: 'put',
  username: 'zellwk', 
  password: '12345678',
  body: { 
    done: true 
  }
})
```

The server will respond with the edited task if it's successful:

```js
{
  "id": "5b8f7b2713b6e114ab5e5645",
  "name": "Learn JavaScript for 30 minutes",
  "done": "true"
}
```

### Delete a task

Deletes a specified task

```
DELETE /tasks/:taskid'
```

Example:

```js
zlFetch(`${rootendpoint}/users/zellwk/tasks/5b8f7b2713b6e114ab5e5645`, {
  method: 'delete',
  username: 'zellwk', 
  password: '12345678'
})
```

Response:

The server will respond with the deleted task. 

```json
{
  "id": "5b8f7b2713b6e114ab5e5645",
  "name": "Learn JavaScript for 30 minutes",
  "done": "true"
}
```

## Challenge yourself

Use this API to create the Todolist yourself. 

Move on to the next lesson whenever you're ready. 