# 🛠️ Creating a real todolist with Ajax (Part 1)

I want to help you understand Ajax better, and there is no better way to do so by letting you build something with the API.

For this API, you'll be able to use get, post, put, and delete requests with this API.

I think it'll be helpful for you to build something real with Ajax. In addition to the Google Maps component, so we'll be building the Todolist with Ajax.

We'll be using the CRUD operations and hence Get, POST, PUT and DELETE requests.

I built an API for you to try out. This will be for the todolist. We'll touch on the API for this lesson and dive into using it in the subsequent lessons.

Oh my god I feel like a creep.

BUt anyway.

## Root endpoint

The root endpoint for all API queries for the tasklist will be the following:

```
http://api.learnjavascript.today/tasklist
```

## Creating a user

You need to create a user before you can use the Tasks API. You can use this endpoint to create a user.

```
```


1. Understanding the API / Using the API
  1. User API
    1. Creating user
    2. Querying user
    3. Deleting user
  2. Tasks API
    1. Getting all tasks by a specific user
    2. Creating a task
    3. Editing a task
    4. Deleting a task

So basically what I'm going to teach in this lesson is the task part, about the creation. Once the creation is complete, we'll work on the how to improve the component or something. THere are a few things in my head right about what I'm going to teach regarding this ajax part.

1. Should we change the innerHTML thing, so no `makeLi`, but rather just `innerHTML` = something instead. THat's a consideration, and I think I'll only come to this conclusion after building stuff.
2. Second is the actual creation and saving. Which comes first. And the getting of the tasks. Maybe create some default tasks per user (to be done with MongoDB!). Gotta check how. But anyway, I'll start by doing this I think. Because this is important for people to understand how tasks are made. THey can remove their tasks as necessary. I'll teach them how to get all tasks first, followed by creation and stuff. The API page should teach them how to get stuff. And then from that point onwards, we'll use the API to teach them how to create and delete and edit.

2. Creating a task and saving to the database —
3. Editing a task (and saving it to the database)
4. Deleting a task
5. Improving the code for todolist

Yep, I think this should do it for the todolist Ajax section. Let me begin by writing what the API is.

---
The API:

### The root endpoint

The root endpoint for all API calls will be the following:

```
https://api.learnjavascript.today/tasklist
```

### Creating a user

```
POST /users
```

Required fields:

1. `username`: Type: String. Your username. This username will be used to query for your tasks.

Note: Three tasks will be created for you automatically when you create a user. (Normally, when you create a user, everything will be empty, but for the purpose of this course, I will create three tasks for you per newly created user. THis will help you learn how they work as you go through the course later. :).

Something like that.

### Getting a user

You can check whether your user has been created with this:

```
GET /users/:username
```

### Deleting a user

```
DELETE /users/:username
```

All your tasks and your user will be deleted from the database.

## Tasks API

### Get all tasks

```
GET /users/:username/tasks
```

Fetches a list of tasks created by the user.

### Create a task

```
POST /users/:username/tasks
```

Creates a task for the username mentioned. CHeck Github for their terminology.

Required fields:

1. `task`: The task

Optional fields:

1. `done`: Whether the task has been completed

### Editing a task

```
PUT /users/:username/tasks/:taskid
```

No fields required. Task will be edited according to the payload. Fields that can be modified are:

1. `task`: Name of the task
2. `done`: Whether the task is completed

If successful, the edited task will be returned

```
```

Returns an error object if unsuccessful.

### Deleting a task

```
DELETE /users/:username/tasks/:taskid
```

Deletes a task. Returns message 'task deleted' if successful.

Response
Status: 204 No Content

Format:

### Title

Info

```
GET
```

Example:

Response:

