# Sending a post request

Of course I don't really know what should be written here at this point. I am afarid that I may end up being too long windyed and as a result, have problems expressing what I truly whant to say, and what the student noeed to hear.

I Oh by, this is going to be a problem if I cannot hit the delet key. It's getting on my nerves and is creating the sanes of fear that is rutting through my brain. THe amount of mistakes I am making dioesn't help too. It's going to be a big mess in the end, that's whyat I say in my head.

But I can see how this training is useful—it htrains me to typet he correct word word at the right time no so the ability to spync up words with my brain is important.

So anywhay, wha tI wanted to say is I don't really know what to write here, except that I should say that post requests are a lilttle more complicated than pull request. FUCK. What u pull request. GET reoqust. Post request is similar to other kinds of request.

A Post request is a request to create a nresource . As you have learned. To create a resource. you need access to the deatabase, means changing the datamase, means writing the dabatbase.

Some post Most post requests, ALmost all post request, along with put, detele anr patch requests require you autehntication.

But before sending all these nonsesnse, we should maybe try a pull request to start with. Thayt way, we can contiune talking about authentication when the error couucurs . THat will bring the student through a process.  of learning.

So the initial part will be an quick ae explaination about post requests, about how Post request, check documoentatian maybe? Then send. ANyway, let me move on first and talk about the authentication part.

## Authentication

THere are two kinds of authentication. One form of authentication is called basic authentication. In this form, you provide a username/email address, and a password.

The second form of authoentication is called Oauth. Here, you pass a serioalized token. AI have to explain what this token is too. We'll learn about Oauth in the next lesson. Let's work with basic authentication first.

I want to explain authentication and why.

Imagineif y ou Imagine you have a

A database is liink a bank account. DYou don't If you don't have proper credentioals (login crienedtails), anyone can log into your bank and transfer money out of it. SY ou don't want something like this to happen , right? So that's why authenitcation is requeired. I't promives a form of security for the data you created in that website. I don't really know how to explain this well at this point too. I feel like I'm such an idiot. I want out. I serious wantly out right now because I feel that my brain istn working properly. I mean, even my sperlling is all over the place! I can't hake it anymore. I want a place to run and chill. I want to get out of this room right at this moment. I feel like such an idiot trying to work when I am not feeling well, when I am disturbed by something else is the morning, and for myself when I haven't even sat adown and let the subconscious work through what needs to happen in this article. This feels incredibly dissafactory, and irritoating. I mhave to admit. I might need to throw away everything and start from scratch simply because I have written so much juntk to begin with.

I really want to go back to the article that I have been writing. I really want to. But for some reason, I feel the urge to run again. To run away, so I don't have to face the rubbish that I have created.

I understand it's going to be hardsh. I'm going to sit here iuntil 3:30, writing rubbish if I have to. This is my dedication to make the ching work. Either I create, or I die. The intetniot is there. I need to create till 3:30 before I can take a break. So please cooperate with me right at this point and stop thinking about anything else.

Porn can wait.



- To do a post request
- Need to authenticate
- If not, get error
- How to authenticate
- oAuth vs username/password
- We'll only go through username/password for this course


If you want to send JSON information, make sure you convert JavaScript to JSON with `JSON.stringify` first.

```js
fetch('some-url', {
  method: 'post',
  body: JSON.stringify(aJavaScriptObject)
})
```

In Fetch, `headers` is an object. You set headers the same way you create a JavaScript object. Each header information is a key-value pair.

To send JSON data to the server, you need to set `content-type` to `application/json`.

```js
fetch('some-url', {
  method: 'post',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json'
  }
  body: JSON.stringify(aJavaScriptObject)
})
```