# Inheritance

Aside from instance construction, **inheritance** is another big part of Object Oriented Programming.

When you think of inheritance, you probably think about children getting a big sack of gold from their parents.

Inheritance in Javascript has the same notion. Instead of getting 💰, you get properties and methods from parent constructors.

## When would you use inheritance?

Let's say you have constructed a `Human` class that's able to let their instances say their name.

```js
class Human {
  constructor (firstName, lastName) {
    this.firstName = firstName
    this.lastName = lastName

    this.sayName = function () {
      console.log(`I am ${this.firstName} ${this.lastName}`)
    }
  }
}

const tim = new Human('Tim', 'Fisher')
tim.sayName() // I am Tim Fisher
```

Now, let's say you want to create a developer. A developer is a human who codes, so when you create a developer, you need to add additional methods to them.

```js
const zell = new Human('Zell', 'Liew')
zell.code = function (thing) {
  console.log(`Coded a ${thing}!`)
}

zell.code('website') // Coded a website!
```

Now, let's say you want to create another developer. To make sure this new developer can also code, you have to copy the `code` method all over again!

```js
const jing = new Human('Hui Jing', 'Chen')
jing.code = function (thing) {
  console.log(`Coded a ${thing}!`)
}

jing.code('monster') // Coded a monster!
```

That's not very nice. So, how about you create a new class called `Developer` that's derived from `Human`? This way, you can create additional developers without having to copy-paste the `code` method.

To create a `Developer` class from `Human` class, you can use the `extends` keyword.

```js
class Developer extends Human {
  constructor (firstName, lastName) {
    // I'll explain super in a sec.
    super(firstName, lastName)

    this.code = function (thing) {
      console.log(`Coded a ${thing}!`)
    }
  }
}
```

In Object Oriented Programming, `Developer` is also called a **child class** while `Human` is called a **parent class**.

Now, any developer you create with `new Developer` can code!

```js
const zell = new Developer('Zell', 'Liew')
const jing = new Developer('Hui Jing', 'Chen')

zell.code('website') // Coded a website!
jing.code('monster') // Coded a monster!
```

Aside from coding, your developers also have the ability to say their name!

```js
zell.sayName() // I am Zell Liew
jing.sayName() // I am Jing Chen
```

Why can your developers say their name?

Well, its time to explain what `super()` does. But before we do that, here's one quick tip about `super`.

## Super must come first

When you use `super` in a child constructor, make sure it's the first line of code you write. Everything else must come after `super`, or you'll get an error.

```js
class Developer extends Human {
  constructor (firstName, lastName) {
    // super must come first
    super(firstName, lastName)

    // Everything else that goes into a constructor function can go here.
  }
}
```

## What's up with super?

When you call `super` in a child constructor, Javascript runs the `constructor` method in the parent class.

When it runs the parent `constructor` method, it also sets the `this` value to that of the child instance.

This might make more sense through a constructor syntax.

## Child class in a constructor syntax

If you write the `Developer` as constructor, your code would look similar to this.

```js
function Developer (firstName, lastName) {
  // This does the same as super (firstName, lastName)
  Human.call(this, firstName, lastName)

  // Do whatever after the super call
  this.code = function (thing) {
    console.log(`Coded a ${thing}!`)
  }
}

const zell = new Developer('Zell Liew')
zell.sayName() // I am Zell Liew
zell.code('website') // Coded a website!
```

`Human.call` calls the `Human` constructor, almost as if you're running `Human()`.

If you run `Human()` normally, you add `firstName`, `lastName` and `sayName` to `window`, because `this` points to `window`.

```js
// Don't ever do this!
Human('Astro', 'Boy')
console.log(window.firstName) // Astro
```

If you use `call`, you can run `Human`, but change the `this` value to something else.

Let's say you want to change `this` to an `egg` object. To do so, you pass value of `egg` as the first parameter to a function `call`.

```js
const egg = {}
Human.call(egg, 'Humpty', 'Dumpty')

console.log(egg)
// {
//   firstName: 'Humpty',
//   lastName: 'Dumpty',
//   sayName: function () { ... }
// }
```

In the case of the `Developer` constructor, you use `call` to change the `this` value from `window` to `this` in the new instance, which is why your instances get `firstName` and `lastName` properties.

```js
function Developer (firstName, lastName) {
  Human.call(this, firstName, lastName)
}

const zell = new Developer('Zell', 'Liew')
console.log(zell.firstName) // Zell
```

## Wrapping up

Inheritance is the process where children classes (or constructors) get properties and methods from parent classes.

To create a child class that inherits from a parent class, you use the `extends` keyword.

To create a child constructor that inherits from a parent constructor, you need to call the parent constructor with a `call` method; the `call` method let's you change the value of `this`.

## Exercise

1. Create a child class that extends from a parent class.
2. Create a child constructor that extends from a parent constructor
