# CSS Animations

CSS animations give you a second way to animate your elements. They're like transitions, but they're way more powerful.

How powerful?

You can create animations like [this heartbeat](https://codepen.io/zellwk/pen/wrNoXP) here if you know it well. :)

## Creating the animation

To create an animation, you need to write the animation with the `@keyframes` syntax. It looks like this:

```css
@keyframes animation-name {
  0% {
    margin-left: 0px;
  }

  50% {
    margin-right: 400px;
  }

  100% {
    margin-left: 0px;
  }
}
```

In the keyframes above, the `0%`, `50%` and `100%` values are points on an animation timeline. It means the following:

1. Start the animation (0%); set `margin-left` to `0px`
2. Start to middle of animation (50%); change `margin-left` to `400px`
3. Middle to end of animation (100%); change `margin-left` to `0px`

You can add any number of points on the `@keyframes` declaration. Each point should be a percentage value.

```css
@keyframes animation-name {
  0% { /* ... */ }
  25% { /* ... */ }
  50% { /* ... */ }
  75% { /* ... */ }
  100% { /* ... */ }
}
```

## Using the animation

To use the animation, you use the `animation` property. Like `transition`, `animation` is a shorthand (but for 8 properties!).

```css
.element {
  animation: name duration timing-function delay iteration-count direction
    fill-mode play-state;
}
```

The eight properties are:

1. `animation-name`
2. `animation-duration`
3. `animation-timing-function`
4. `animation-delay`
5. `animation-iteration-count`
6. `animation-direction`
7. `animation-fill-mode`
8. `animation-play-state`

```css
.element {
  animation-name: name;
  animation-duration: duration;
  animation-timing-function: timing-function;
  animation-delay: duration;
  animation-iteration-count: count;
  animation-direction: direction;
  animation-fill-mode: fill-mode;
  animation-play-state: play-state;
}
```

You should already be familiar with four of them:

1. `animation-name` is the name of the animation. It's the same name you create with `@keyframes`.
2. `animation-duration` is the duration of the animation. It is written in seconds with the `s` suffix, like `3s`.
3. `animation-timing-function` is the timing-function used for the animation. It the same as `transition-timing-function`.
4. `animation-delay` is the duration to wait before the animation starts. This delay is also applied every time the animation repeats.

These four properties are slightly new:

1. `animation-iteration-count` determines how many times the animation should repeat. If you want the animation to loop infinitely (until you say stop), use `infinite`.
2. `animation-direction` is the direction of the animation. More on `animation-direction` below.
3. `animation-fill-mode` tells CSS what to do when the animation ends. We won't cover this property.
4. `animation-play-state` determines whether the animation is playing or paused.

### Animation-direction

`animation-direction` determines how the animation is played. You can set it to four values:

1. `normal`
2. `reverse`
3. `alternate`
4. `alternate-reverse`

Here's the difference between each of them:

1. `normal`: starts at 0% and ends at 100%
2. `reverse`: starts at 100% and ends at 0%
3. `alternate`: Every odd iteration starts at 0% and ends at 100%. Every even iteration starts at 100% and ends at 0%
4. `alternate-reverse`: Every odd iteration starts at 1000% and ends at 0%; every even iteration starts at 0% and ends at 1000%

See this codepen for a demo: https://codepen.io/zellwk/pen/eGxBWP?editors=1100.

### Animation-play-state

CSS plays animations immediately when the page loads. If you want to pause your animations, you need to set `animation-play-state` to `false`.

```css
/* Pause an animation */
.element {
  animation-play-state: paused;
}
```

If you want to play the animation, you need to set `animation-play-state` to `running`.

```css
/* Plays animation when a user hovers over the element */
.element:hover {
  animation-play-state: running;
}
```

See this pen for a demo: https://codepen.io/zellwk/pen/WZPRva.

Note: pause your CSS animations when you don't need them. This saves precious computing power!

## Animating two or more properties.

You can use multiple animations at the same time. Just do the same as what you do with CSS transitions and you'll be fine 🤓.

```css
.selector {
  animation-name: slideIn, fadeIn;
  animation-duration: 2s;
}
```

## When to use CSS Animations

CSS animations can be complicated. I recommend using them only if the following conditions are met:

1. You need to change a property more than once in the animation
2. You need to change more than 2 properties at once
3. You want to trigger the animation when the screen loads (without listening for any JavaScript event).
4. The animation has less than 4 points (the percentage thing)

If your animations are simpler than the conditions above, use CSS Transitions.

If your animation is more complicated than the conditions above, use JavaScript to animate.

## Exercise

1. Create a `@keyframes` declaration
2. Write the animation with the `animation` shorthand
3. Experiment with `animation-iteration-count`.
4. Experiment with `animation-direction`
5. Pause and play our CSS animation with `animation-play-state`.
