# 🛠 Animating the carousel

You're going to learn to animate the carousel. Here's what you'll get by the end of this lesson:

## Animating the transitions

To animate the carousel, all you need to do is create a transition for the `left` property.

```css
.carousel__track {
  // ...
  transition: left 0.3s ease-out;
}
```

However you should not create transitions with the `left` property because you'll introduce jank. For this case, you should transition the `transform` property instead.

## Switching slides with transforms

To switch slides with transforms, two things must happen:

1. You need to set the correct transform value with JavaScript
2. You need to create a `transition` for the `transform` property.

### The correct transform value

The correct transform value is the same as the correct left value. This applies for all three event listeners.

```js
// remove this
track.style.left = '-' + amountToMove
```

```js
// replace with this
track.style.transform = 'translateX(-' + amountToMove + ')'
```

### Setting the transform property

We don't need the `left` property anymore if we change the slides with `transform`. Since we don't need the `left` property, we can remove the `position` property as well.

```css
/* remove this */
.carousel__track {
  position: relative;
  transition: left 0.3s ease-out;
}
```

```css
/* replace with this */
.carousel__track {
  transform: translateX(0);
  transition: transform 0.3s ease-out;
}
```

## Wrapping up

When you create animations, try to use the four properties explained in [jank free animations](./03.jank-free-animations.md). They are:

1. Translate (from the transform property)
2. Rotate (from the transform property)
3. Scale (from the transform property)
4. Opacity

Sometimes, you might need to hack around your brain before you can use these four properties. Other times, the change is more straightforward, like in this carousel's case.

---

- Previous Lesson: [Animating the accordion](06.animating-accordions.md)
- Next Lesson: [JavaScript animations](08.animating-with-js.md)
