# Generating unique IDs

Sometimes you might need to generate a unique id for elements. We'll talk about the how and the why in this lesson.

## What is a unique string

Here's what a unique strings look like:

```js
const string1 = '577ac755d7fef11100753579'
const string2 = '5b4ef18839cd6500114e04d2'
```

Simply put, a unique string is a string that contains so many permutations of characters and numbers that it is almost impossible to create the same string twice.

This impossibility makes the string unique.

Since the string is unique, they are often used as an identifier. Hence unique IDs.

## Creating a unique string

You can use this code to generate a unique string:

```js
const generateUnique = length =>
  Math.random().toString(36).substring(2, 2 + length)
```

This code generates a unique string between 1 to 10 characters reliably. The `length` argument determines the numbers of characters generated.

```js
console.log(generateUnique(5)) // p9hdi
console.log(generateUnique(10)) // lyv38rpujn
```

We'll break down this code so you understand what it does.

There are three parts:

1. `Math.random`
2. `toString`
3. `substring`

### Math.random

`Math.random` is a JavaScript method to produce a random number from 0 to 1. It produces a number with around 16 decimal points. I say around because `Math.random` is not consistent.

```js
console.log(Math.random()) // 0.21488604415320722
console.log(Math.random()) // 0.5658986096492693
```

### toString

`toString` converts the random number into a string. Every number in JavaScript contains this `toString` method. It takes in an argument called a `radix`.

```js
Number.toString(radix)
```

A `radix` (or base) is the number of unique digits used in a numbering system. We have multiple types numeric systems.

For example:

1. Booleans have two digts: 0 and 1. They use a radix of 2.
2. Our normal numeric system has 10 digits: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. This uses a radix of 10.

If you've read about programming, you may have heard about Base 36 and Base 64. (Base 64 is more common though). Here's what they mean:

1. Base 36 is a format that contains 36 unique digits: the 10 numbers and 26 lower-case letters. From 0 to 9, and from a to z.
2. Base 64 is a format that contains 64 unique digits: the 10 numbers, both upper and lower-case letters, and the `+` and `/` characters.

When you use `toString` method that exists on a Number, you can use a radix between 2 and 36.

Since we're trying to create a unique string, we want to use the highest number of characters possible. That's why we use 36 as the radix.

```js
console.log(Math.random().toString(36)) // 0.w4zqan9h1pr
console.log(Math.random().toString(36)) // 0.atfa2xdtzw
```

Note: The 16-decimal points becomes approximately 10 to 11 characters after the `toString` conversion.

### substring

`substring` lets you select part of a string. It can take up to two variables:

```js
String.substring(indexStart, indexEnd)
```

`indexStart` tells `substring` where to start the selection.

`indexEnd` tells `substring` when to stop the selection. This value is optional, and the character for this index value will not be returned.

Example:

```js
console.log('My name is Zell'.substring(1)) // y name is Zell
console.log('My name is Zell'.substring(3, 7)) // name
```

In `generateUnique`, we used set `indexStart` to 2 and an `indexEnd` to `2 + length`

```js
const generateUnique = length =>
  Math.random().toString(36).substring(2, 2 + length)
```

Setting `indexStart` to 2 lets use get the first character after the decimal point. We don't want index 0 because the first two characters are always `0.`.

Setting `indexEnd` to `2 + length` lets us change the number of characters we need for the unique string. A higher number creates a string that is more unique.

As mentioned before, this code lets us create unique strings with up to 10 characters. This is because `toString` returns a string than contains 10 characters reliably.

## Why use unique IDs?

Let's explain why you need a unique id through an example.

Let's say you want to create a list of items with JavaScript. Each item needs to have an id because you need to do something with id later.

Here's the HTML most of us will think of.

```html
<ul>
  <li id="fruit-0">Apple</li>
  <li id="fruit-1">Banana</li>
  <li id="fruit-2">Orange</li>
</ul>
```

To create this HTML, we can use the `index` of the item.

```js
const fruits = ['Apple', 'Banana', 'Orange']
const ul = document.querySelector('.ul')

fruits.forEach((fruit, index) => {
  const li = document.createElement('li')
  li.textContent = fruit
  li.id = `fruit-${index}`
  ul.appendChild('li')
})
```

Here's a question. What happens if you need to create the fourth fruit later?

When this happens, we have an urge to continue the indexing. So one way to create the fourth fruit, we can find the `id` of the previous item, use `substring` to extract the number used, increase the number by one, and set is as the id of the new item.

(If this sounds tedious, it is. I'm not going to show how to do it because its not the point).

Here's another question. What happens if you need to delete the second fruit. Will you be comfortable with a list that contains a missing number?

```html
<ul>
  <li id="fruit-0">Apple</li>
  <li id="fruit-2">Orange</li>
</ul>
```

This shows a flaw in the numbering system.

To make a system that is more robust to changes, we can use unique id strings. This way, we don't care if elements are added or deleted. They're going to be unique anyway.

```js
const fruits = ['Apple', 'Banana', 'Orange']
const ul = document.querySelector('.ul')

fruits.forEach((fruit, index) => {
  const li = document.createElement('li')
  li.textContent = fruit
  li.id = generateUnique(5)
  ul.appendChild('li')
})
```

```html
<ul>
  <li id="v00o0">Apple</li>
  <li id="6k9fz">Banana</li>
  <li id="j41vt">Orange</li>
</ul>
```

Note: You won't need create your unique ID if you're making an app. These ids are usually generated on the backend, and you'll be able to get them when you need them. More details in the Ajax module.

## Here's a fun fact

I searched for a method to generate a unique string on Google and I found a [stack overflow question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/105034/how-to-create-a-guid-uuid-in-javascript).

I looked at some of the answers and I saw people used `Math.random`, `toString` and `substring` to create a unique id.

I didn't understand what was happening, so I took it apart step by step like I showed you in this lesson. After taking things apart (and after checking the documentation), I was able to understand what happened.

The moral of this fun fact is: you don't need to be perfect when it comes to JavaScript. You can google if you need to. And if you see something you don't understand, you can take it apart to understand it.