# Using the starter template

If you look at the Github repo, under `/components/`, you'll see a `_starter-template` folder. This folder contains a starter template that I've built for you for this course. I call it Simple Starter Template.

This Simple Starter Template uses the latest developer tooling approaches – including Gulp and Webpack – to update your website automatically when you save your HTML, CSS or JavaScript files. This Simple Starter Template helps you speed up development tremendously – there's no longer a need for you to save, alt-tab to your browser and hit refresh before you see your updated changes!

## Note! You don't have to use the starter template!

This starter template is built to help you (and me) code faster. You don't have to use it if you're totally new to web development.

Actually, DON'T USE IT if you're super new to web development. Stick to normal HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

But if you feel courageous, go ahead and have a try! It'll work perfectly fine.

If you run into any problems, feel free to hit me up over Slack and I'll get back to you as soon as I can.

## Using the Simple Starter Template

The updated instructions are written directly on the `README.md` file of the Simple Starter Template. Take a look at it and play around with the Simple Starter Template before building your components. It'll be a lot of fun!

Here's what you'll want to test out:

1. Download the Simple Starter Template onto your computer
2. Install Node if you haven't already (instructions in the Simple Starter Template).
3. Spin up the server (instructions in the Simple Starter Template).
4. Edit the `src/index.html` file and see changes updated immediately!
5. Edit the `src/scss/styles.scss` file and see changes updated immediately!
6. Edit the `src/js/main.js` file and see changes updated immediately! (Note: you will need to manually reload the page if you change an event handler. See the Simple Starter Template `README.md` file for more details).

Once you've gotten these 6 things to work, you're set to have a fun time developing components. See you in the next lesson!
