# Before you begin making components

You will finally be building real components from the next lesson onwards. Are you excited yet?

If you want to thoroughly understand the components you're going to build, you want to follow these instructions.

**First, break the problem down yourself**. What needs to happen? What do you have to write in your CSS? Your JavaScript? Writing down the steps on paper/in your text editor before moving to the next step. It helps clarify your mind, so you know what to focus on to get the job done.

**Second, create the HTML, CSS and JavaScript**. Try your best here. Take 1/2 hour to do this at most. Don't worry if it doesn't work out, or if it doesn't look nice. Focus on the crucial CSS and JavaScript interaction you need go get the component working.

If you do this, you'll have a general idea of what needs to happen, which would help you understand and remember the lesson as soon as you read it.

**Third, code along with the lesson**. You'll get the starting HTML and CSS for each component we're going to build. In each starter, you only need to change the crucial CSS and JavaScript to get the component working. You can find this starter under the `components` directory.

You'd want to use this starter as you go through the lesson. Make sure you type every line of code you see. Doing so helps you [remember the process](https://zellwk.com/blog/remember/) so you know how to build the component again when you face yet another blank screen.

With that, let's begin building!
