## Two lessons from the building process

So far, you've built five components – an off-canvas menu, a modal window, an accordion, a tabbed interface and a carousel.

That's a great start!

Let's take a pause and learn two lessons before continuing.

## Lesson #1: You need to know HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

HTML, CSS and JavaScript – these are the three arms to web development. You cannot say you're a good developer if you don't know any one of these skills. You need to know them all.

If you're weak in CSS, I suggest you spend 1/2 hour a day learning CSS from now on. There is no substitute to learning CSS than putting in the time to create things.

What to create? Pick anything and try to make it, don't over analyze.

Once you believe you can build anything you see with CSS, your JavaScript learning process will skyrocket as well.

If you have any CSS questions. Don't hesitate to ask them in the JavaScript Fundamentals Slack group. We're here to help each other out.

### What if I don't have time? Should I stop learning JavaScript and start learning CSS?

You should focus on JavaScript if you don't have extra 1/2 hour a day to learn CSS.

If you learn something halfway and stop, you wouldn't internalize what's important, which means to say you'll forget it if you don't use it for a while.

You don't want to forget JavaScript, right?

### But isn't CSS important?

Yes, CSS is important.

You can only put one thing at the top of your priority list – is that going to be CSS or JavaScript? I recommend you to stick with JavaScript now if you can't learn CSS.

Why?

First, you're already learning JavaScript. You learned a lot since you're now on the sixth module. You don't want to forget JavaScript (see above).

Second, go through the past five lessons in your mind. Did you learn HTML and CSS in those lessons?

You did.

These HTML and CSS instructions are the minimum things you need to know to build the component. You're already learning HTML and CSS in JavaScript Fundamentals.

Any HTML and CSS you learn in addition to JavaScript Fundamentals serves to help you make nicer/better components in future. They're good to have, but not a must-have at this point. Learn the must-haves first if you're short for time.

## Lesson #2: Write your HTML and CSS first before JavaScript

When you write HTML and CSS first, you give yourself a chance to see how the component looks visually. You give yourself a chance to mock possible functionality (like manually adding a `is-open` class) without using JavaScript.

Once you're done mocking the functionality you need, adding JavaScript becomes an easy process – you know what to change, you know where to change it.

Always write HTML and CSS before JavaScript.

## Lesson 3: Minimize changes

When you use JavaScript to change the appearance of your component, try to introduce as little changes as possible. This lets you write code (both CSS and JavaScript) that's easier to maintain.

You should always strive to change the state of your entire component (how it looks) with only one class change. If you can't, use two classes. Never more than two.


