# Selecting an Element

Let's say you want to change the text color of a certain `<div>` from black to red. How do you begin?

The first step is to find the `<div>` you want to change. This `<div>` is called an Element.

To select an Element in JavaScript, you can use a method called `querySelector`.

## querySelector

Here's the syntax of `querySelector`:

```js
const element = Element.querySelector(selector)
```

Element refers to any Element you've already selected. If you don't have an Element yet, you can use `document` as your first Element.

Selector refers to the id, class, tag or attribute you would like to select. These selectors are written the same way as you would write selectors in CSS.:

- **To select an element with an id**, you prepend it with `#`
- **To select an element with a class**, you prepend it with `.`
- **To select an element with a tag**, you write the tag name directly
- **To select an element with an attribute**, you write the attribute in square (`[]`) brackets.

Here are some examples of `querySelector` at work:

```html
<div id="master-yoda">Yoda</div>
<div class="class-of-assassins">Assassin</div>
<p>The three little pigs</p>
<div data-rocket>🚀</div>
```

```js
document.querySelector('#master-yoda')
// => <div id="master-yoda">Yoda</div>

document.querySelector('.class-of-assassins')
// => <div class="class-of-assassins">Assassin</div>

document.querySelector('p')
// => <p>The three little pigs</p>

document.querySelector('[data-rocket]')
// => <div data-rocket>🚀</div>
```

## querySelector selects only one element

One thing that's unique about `querySelector` is that it selects only *one Element*. This would be the first element that matches your selector.

If you want to select multiple elements, you'll need to use another method called `querySelectorAll`. You'll find out more about `querySelectorAll` in a later lesson.

## Complex selectors

Although you can write complex selectors that combine id, classes, tags and even attributes, don't. One selector is usually good enough to handle your selection needs.

```js
// DON'T DO THIS
document.querySelector('div#master-yoda')
// => <div id="master-yoda">Yoda</div>

// DO THIS INSTEAD
document.querySelector('#master-yoda')
// => <div id="master-yoda">Yoda</div>
```

## Select an Element within another Element

`querySelector` searches within an Element for an element that matches your given selector. If you use `document.querySelector`, you'll search the entire HTML. If you use `Element.querySelector`, you'll only search elements that are present within your given Element.

Here's an example. Say you have the following HTML. You want to get `.inner-item`.

```html
<div class="container">
  <div class="inner-item">Inner item!</div>
</div>
```

You can get `.inner-item` directly with `document.querySelector`:

```js
const innerItem = document.querySelector('.inner-item')
```

You can also get `.inner-item` by first performing a search for the outer Element, then search for the `.inner-item` through this outer Element.

```js
const container = document.querySelector('.container')
const innerItem = container.querySelector('.inner-item')
// => <div class="inner-item">Inner item!</div>
```

You may think the the second method I've explained seems redundant, because you can already get `.inner-item` with `document.querySelector`. You're right for this HTML. It is redundant.

But, this method will become incredibly helpful when you select and work with multiple Elements at the same time. You'll see more of these examples later in the course.

## Exercise

Practice selecting Elements with `document.querySelector` and `Element.querySelector`. Try using ids, classes, tags and attribute selectors as you select from the following HTML.

```html
<ul id="star-wars-characters">
  <li class="character luke" data-type="hero">Luke Skywalker</li>
  <li class="character yoda" data-type="master">Yoda</li>
  <li class="character badboy" data-type="villain">Darth Vader</li>
</ul>
```

1. Get the `#star-wars-characters` list with `id` and `tag` selectors.
2. From the `#star-wars-characters` list, get the following:
    1. Luke Skywalker with `class`, `tag` and `attribute` selectors
    2. Yoda with `class` and `attribute` selectors
    3. Darth Vadar with `class` and `attribute` selectors
3. Notice how you can't select Yoda and Darth Vadar with tags when you use `querySelector`.