# Id, classes, tags and attributes

You can select Elements with id, classes, tags or even attributes. What you use largely boils down to personal preference.

## What I use

My order of preference is classes, attributes, tags and finally id.

Below are the reasons for my preference.

## Classes are more specific that tags

I choose classes over tags because classes are more specific. Code is less complicated when you use classes.

Let's say you have the following HTML. Would it be easier for you to select `.component` with tags or classes?

```html
<div>...</div>
<div class="component">...</div>
```

## Classes can be used more than once

I choose classes over ids because classes can be used more than once on the same HTML page, while you can't have the same id appear more than once on the same page.

Because of this slight difference, classes hold the advantage.

## Classes vs attributes

Classes and attributes have the same advantage compared to tags and ids.

When you write more JavaScript as you progress through the course, you'll realize we use classes for identification while attributes for filtering most of the time.

Both are great choices. Selecting with attributes ofter requires a little bit more code compared to classes.

## JavaScript hooks

When you build components, it can be helpful to include a `js` prefix when the component needs JavaScript to work.

```html
<div class="component jsComponent">...</div>
```

Doing so allows you to know from a glance that JavaScript is required. It also prevents you from accidentally breaking JavaScript functionality when you change the class of a component.

