# Introduction to Objects

An object is a type of data in JavaScript. It's the only value you can pass around as variables besides primitives. For this reason, objects are really important in JavaScript.

## What are objects

An object in JavaScript is a type of data that contains **key-value pairs**.

You can create objects by writing key-value pairs within curly braces. If you intend to have multiple key-value pairs in your object, you need to separate each pair with commas, like this:

```js
const anObject = {
  key1: 'value1',
  key2: 'value2',
  key3: 'value3'
  // ...
}
```

Each *key* gives you a reference to a *value*. If you imagine an English dictionary, the keys are the words while the values are the definition of each word.

```js
const dictionary = {
  dream: `a series of thoughts, images, and sensations occurring in a person's mind during sleep`,
  happy: 'feeling or showing pleasure or contentment',
  // ...
}
```

Since object stores key-value pairs, another analogy you can use for objects in JavaScript is an object in real life.

For example, you can observe the device you're using to read this lesson. What device is this? What's its size? What's its operating system?

If you put these information together into an object, it'd look like this:

```js
const macbook = {
  operatingSystem: 'macOS Sierra',
  screenResolution: '2880x1800',
  screenSize: '15.4 inch'
  usbPorts: 2,
  hdmiPort: 1
  // ... Other specs
}
```

## Object values

Objects can contain any value that's valid in JavaScript. This means you can store primitives (like Strings and Numbers) and other objects, which makes objects versatile.

## Getting the value of a property

Keys in objects are also called properties. There are two ways you can get the value of a property.

The first way is through the **dot notation**, where you write the name of the object, followed by `.`, followed by the property name:

```js
const prop = object.property
```

In the example above, we declared a macbook object. If you'd like to get the `storage` of this macbook, you can write `macbook.storage`

```js
const macbookStorage = macbook.storage
console.log(macbookStorage) // 512gb
```

The second way is through the **bracket notation**. Here, you write the name of the object, followed by a string of the property in square brackets (`[]`).

```js
const prop = object['property']

// So, you can get the storage of the macbook with this:
const macbookStorage = macbook['storage']
console.log(macbookStorage) // 512gb
```

Both methods work.

Normally, you'd use the *dot notation*. You'd only use the *bracket notation* in special occasions where the dot notation doesn't work.

These special occasions include:

1. When your property name is an invalid identifier.
2. When you need to get the value of an object through a variable.

### Invalid identifiers

Remember you had these four constraints you had when you declare variables?

1. It must be one word
2. It must consist only of letters, numbers or underscores (0-9, a-z, A-Z, `_`).
3. It cannot begin with a number.
4. It cannot be any of these [reserved keywords](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#Keywords)

Anything that follows these four rules is a valid identifier. Anything that doesn't follow these rules is an invalid identifier.

Objects can have invalid identifiers as properties, like this:

```js
const ObjWithInvalidIdentifer = {
  'First Name': 'Zell',
  'Last.Name': 'Liew'
}
```

When you have an invalid identifier, you can't use the dot notation. You need to use the bracket notation:

```js
const firstName = ObjWithInvalidIdentifer.First Name // Error
const firstName = ObjWithInvalidIdentifer['First Name'] // Zell
```

Of course, when you create objects of your own, try to name things sensible (as valid identifiers) so you can use the dot notation. Only use the bracket notation when you don't have a choice.

### Getting value of an object through a variable

When you create advanced components, you may need to obtain the value of an object through a property that's stored in a variable. When this happens, you can only use the bracket notation.

For example, let's say you store the property to search in a variable called `propertyToGet`. To get this property, you need the bracket notation:

```js
const propertyToGet = 'storage'
const macbookStorage = macbook[propertyToGet]
console.log(macbookStorage) // 512gb

const storageWithDotNotation = macbook.propertyToGet
console.log(storageWithDotNotation) // null
// storageWithDotNotation is null because there's no there's no property called 'propertyToGet' in the object
```

Now, let's move on and learn to set property values.

## Setting the value of a property

You can set the value of a property either with the dot notation or the bracket notation. Likewise, the dot notation is always preferred.

```js
// Dot notation
macbook.storage = '256gb'

// Bracket notation
macbook['usbPorts'] = 0

console.log(macbook)
// {
//   storage: '256gb',
//   usbPorts: 0
// }
```

## Deleting properties

You can delete key-value pairs from objects with the `delete` key. To do so, you write the `delete` keyword, followed by the object and property name, either in dot or bracket notation.

```js
delete object.property
```

Here's an example where we delete the `storage` property from the macbook Object.

```js
delete macbook.storage
console.log(macbook)
// The storage property is already deleted, hence you don't see it anymore when you console.log it
// {
//   usbPorts: 0
// }
```

## Functions are Objects in JavaScript

Functions are a special kind of Object in JavaScript. It can have properties too (even though you'd most likely declare any).

```js
// You can add properties to functions
function sayName () {}
sayName.property = 'some value'

console.log(sayName.property)
// some value
```

Since functions are objects, you can write functions as values in objects. The properties that contain functions as their values are called **methods**.

```js
const anObject = {
  aMethod: function() {
    // Do something in function
  }
}
```

In the following example, we say `playMusic` is a method of `macbook`.

```js
const macbook = {
  playMusic: function () {
    /* some code to play music */
  }
}
```

Since methods are functions, they behave exactly like functions.

To call a method, you write parenthesis `()` after getting the method through the dot or bracket notation

```js
// Calling a method with the dot notation
macbook.playMusic()

// Calling a method with the bracket notation
macbook['playMusic']()
```

You can also add arguments to methods, just like normal functions:

```js
const greeter = {
  sayHello: function (name) {
    console.log('Hello ' + name + '!')
  }
}

greeter.sayHello('Zell')
// Hello Zell!
```

Finally, you may have heard about the phases *"higher order functions"* and *"functions are first class objects"*.

Ignore these names, they both mean functions are objects. People like to introduce important-sounding jargons to make functions sound more amazing (and confusing) than they really are.

## Object literal shorthands

ES6 gives you the ability to write objects in a shorter manner. Collectively, this improvement is called *"Object literal shorthands"*.

You can find more information about object literal shorthands in [another lesson]() (not done yet).

## Exercise

Practice making objects. You need to use them a lot when you code for real. Do the following:

1. Make an empty object
2. Make a property for your object with the dot notation. Give it a value
3. Make a property for your object with the bracket notation. Give it a value
4. Get the value of a property with the dot notation
5. Get the value of a property with the square bracket notation
6. Set the value of a property with the dot notation
7. Set the value of a property with the square bracket notation
8. Make a method. Call this method
9. Make a method that takes in an argument. Call this method
