## &&, || and !

In the previous lesson, you learned that you can use `else if` statements to check for multiple conditions, like this:

```js
if (light is red) {
  // Stop walking
} else if (cars around) {
  // Stop walking
} else {
  // Continue walking
}
```

Notice how you'd repeat code (stop walking) if the lights turn red, or if there are cars on the road? These two conditions could be combined into a single condition if you had an `OR` keyword:

```js
if (light is red OR cars around) {
  // Stop walking
} else {
  // Continue walking
}
```

JavaScript gives you three operators like `OR` in this example above – `and`, `or` and `not`.

## The "and" operator (&&)

The `and` operator (`&&`) is used to check if *all expressions that are truthy*. It looks like this:

```js
const test = expr1 && expr2 && expr3
```

`&&` has the following behavior:

- `&&` returns the *last expression* if all expressions are truthy.
- `&&` returns the first *falsey expression* if any expressions are falsey.

Here are some examples of `&&` at work:

```js
'two' && 0 // 0
0 && `two` // 0
'two' && 'three' // 'three'
```

You can use `&&` in a `if/else` condition, like this:

```js
// Buy apples only if stock is low and apples are juicy
if (juicyApples && stockLow) {
  // buy apples
} else {
  // don't buy apples
}
```

## The "or" operator (||)

The `or` operator (`||`) is used to check if *at least one expression is truthy*. It looks like this:

```js
const test = expr1 || expr2 || expr3
```

`||` has the following behavior:

- `||` returns the *first truthy expression* if any expressions are truthy.
- `||` returns the *last expression if all expressions are falsey*

```js
'isTruthy' || 0 // 'isTruthy'
'' || 'isTruthy' // 'isTruthy'
'' || null // null
```

You can use `||` in a `if/else` condition, like this:

```js
// Don't cross the road if the lights are red, or if there are cars on the road.
if (redLights || carsOnRoad) {
  // Don't cross road
} else {
  // Cross road
}
```

## The "not" operator (!)

The `not` operator (`!`) flips truthy and falsey values around. Truthy values becomes `false` while falsey values become `true`.

```js
!22 // false
!false // true
```

The `not` operator can be used to eliminate the `else` statement, like this:

```js
const str = ''
if(!str) {
  // only do something if string is NOT empty
}
```

## Double negation (!!)

If you tried reading other developers' code, you may sometimes see a two `not` operators placed together.

```js
!!someVariable
```

`!!` here is called a double negation. It converts truthy value to `true` and a falsey value to `false`.

It works this way: if the value is truthy, it would be converted to `false` with a `not` operator. Then, `false`, because it's falsey, will be converted back into `true` by the second `not` operator.

Double negation is used to explicitly cast a truthy or falsey value into a boolean. You'll only use it to guard against developers don't use strict equality when comparing expressions.

(In short, you'll almost never use this, unless you're building a framework and you can't trust the developer who may use your framework).

## Exercise

`&&`, `||` and `!` are often used in JavaScript to help write shorter and neater code. It can be confusing in the beginning, so take some time to familiarize yourself with these operators.

What value would you get for each of the following expressions?

1. `'Benjamin' && 'Thaddeus'`
2. `'Benjamin' || 'Thaddeus'`
3. `'' && null`
4. `'' || null`
5. `2550284 && 0`
6. `2550284 || 0`
7. `!2550284`
8. `!true`
9. `!NaN`
10. `!{}`
