When you view the sites this way, you know your first imperative is to make sure your HTML structure gets set correctly. Whatever you write is supposed to use the default styling that browser provides.

Here's one example that many people (myself included) fail? make a mistake. Let's say yau have a navigation for your website. A navvigation is a list of links.
Which of the following code should your navigation be?

```
<nav>
  <a href=""></a>
  <a href=""></a>
  <a href=""></a>
  <a href=""></a>
</nav>
```

or

```
<nav>
  <ul>>
    <li><a href=""></a></li>
    <li><a href=""></a></li>
    <li><a href=""></a></li>
    <li><a href=""></a></li>
  </ul>
</nav>
```

The correct answer is the second one. You want to make sure your HTML hierarchy looks right with the default browsel styles – feels like the web has gone back to 1995. If you've never beeen there, you'll never know how it feels, just like I'll never know how the web at 1995 feels like.

That's the baseline experience of the baseline.

## CSS comes next

Now, alien invasion have lifted, but they're still hogging our Javascript files. Javascript seems like an excellent source of food, so we can't give them any Javascript, or they'll begin their invasion again and take away our CSS too.

No no no.

So kinda you need to take care of the CSS layer next. How does the site look if no Javascript functionality is available?

Would you still have button elements all around in your HTML? Probably not, because buttons require Javascript to work.

Maybe you won't even have site navigations that require someone to click the nicely crafted and hidden away hamburger menu you got there.

So where does this menu sit?

At the top of your screen? That's cool too.

Even if your navigation (and other) elements are hidden when Javascript loads, they should still be visible at this point, because, what if the sucker turns off Javascript or genuinely maade a mistake?

This layer is rare too, but if you build your website through the approach, things will turn out to be more robust than you expect. You'll never know if one day, aliens will really invade and Javascript didn't get loaded.

Note. Progressive enhancement is NOT ABOUT what if there's no Javascript. It's only a small part of it.

So, what functionality would be broken here? Carousels won't work, so, what's your alternative? Show one slide only? Stack everything?

Accordions won't work too. What's your solution? Show everything.

Some animations won't work too – especially the one's you've carefully crafted to include user events, actually those that require user events.

So yup, think about what needs to happen if Javascript somehow fails.

(Now, it's rare, but you can prepare for it).


## What if they're on a mobile?

– not so many places to add stuff. Mobile-first design. Yup? But mobile first design don't neglect desktop! Many people go mobile-first so much that they forget that a desktop experience is sometimes quite different from a good mobile experience.

## What internet is slow

Progressive enhancement isn't about having or not having Javascript, like I said. When you think about progressive enhancement, you think for your users and empathize with them.

So, what if you're trying to view a website from Southern Africa, and your internet bandwidth is limited, plus slow?

How would you feel?

In that case, how do you design your components?

For example, you may want to reduce image sizes, which takes up considerable bandwidth. This is why the `srcset` attribute was born.

There are also other things right now, but I'm feeling a little judgemental so I'm not sure if anything else comes to mind at this point.

## What if they're on a older browser?

- Feature detection + polyfilling + workflows

And that's pretty much it for a progressive enhancement mindset. (Notice I didn't say anything about the blind people, or color contrast or keybord users. Those fall under accessibility).

## What if they got choppy internet?

Can you website/application work offline? That's an advance question, or rather, should your website work offline? :)

That's an advance topic to get into, something way out of scope for this course.



And one thing I want to add is – accessibility often requires internet. Inclusivity includes both accesssibilty and progressive enhancement.

So, that's a harder thing to do, and one good person to follow regrading this topic is heydon pickering – support him on Patreon and learn from his great articles.